Module [java.management](../../../module-summary.md)

Package [javax.management.modelmbean](package-summary.md)

# Class RequiredModelMBean

[java.lang.Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

javax.management.modelmbean.RequiredModelMBean

All Implemented Interfaces:
:   `DynamicMBean`, `MBeanRegistration`, `ModelMBean`, `ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster`, `NotificationBroadcaster`, `NotificationEmitter`, `PersistentMBean`

---

public class RequiredModelMBean
extends [Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")
implements [ModelMBean](ModelMBean.md "interface in javax.management.modelmbean"), [MBeanRegistration](../MBeanRegistration.md "interface in javax.management"), [NotificationEmitter](../NotificationEmitter.md "interface in javax.management")

This class is the implementation of a ModelMBean. An appropriate
implementation of a ModelMBean must be shipped with every JMX Agent
and the class must be named RequiredModelMBean.

Java resources wishing to be manageable instantiate the
RequiredModelMBean using the MBeanServer's createMBean method.
The resource then sets the MBeanInfo and Descriptors for the
RequiredModelMBean instance. The attributes and operations exposed
via the ModelMBeanInfo for the ModelMBean are accessible
from MBeans, connectors/adaptors like other MBeans. Through the
Descriptors, values and methods in the managed application can be
defined and mapped to attributes and operations of the ModelMBean.
This mapping can be defined in an XML formatted file or dynamically and
programmatically at runtime.

Every RequiredModelMBean which is instantiated in the MBeanServer
becomes manageable:  
its attributes and operations become remotely accessible through the
connectors/adaptors connected to that MBeanServer.

A Java object cannot be registered in the MBeanServer unless it is a
JMX compliant MBean. By instantiating a RequiredModelMBean, resources
are guaranteed that the MBean is valid.
MBeanException and RuntimeOperationsException must be thrown on every
public method. This allows for wrapping exceptions from distributed
communications (RMI, EJB, etc.)

Since:
:   1.5

* ## Constructor Summary

  Constructors

  Constructor

  Description

  `RequiredModelMBean()`

  Constructs an `RequiredModelMBean` with an empty
  ModelMBeanInfo.

  `RequiredModelMBean(ModelMBeanInfo mbi)`

  Constructs a RequiredModelMBean object using ModelMBeanInfo passed in.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsConcrete Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `void`

  `addAttributeChangeNotificationListener(NotificationListener inlistener,
  String inAttributeName,
  Object inhandback)`

  Registers an object which implements the NotificationListener interface as a listener.

  `void`

  `addNotificationListener(NotificationListener listener,
  NotificationFilter filter,
  Object handback)`

  Registers an object which implements the NotificationListener
  interface as a listener.

  `Object`

  `getAttribute(String attrName)`

  Returns the value of a specific attribute defined for this
  ModelMBean.

  `AttributeList`

  `getAttributes(String[] attrNames)`

  Returns the values of several attributes in the ModelMBean.

  `protected ClassLoaderRepository`

  `getClassLoaderRepository()`

  Return the Class Loader Repository used to perform class loading.

  `MBeanInfo`

  `getMBeanInfo()`

  Returns the attributes, operations, constructors and notifications
  that this RequiredModelMBean exposes for management.

  `MBeanNotificationInfo[]`

  `getNotificationInfo()`

  Returns the array of Notifications always generated by the
  RequiredModelMBean.

  `Object`

  `invoke(String opName,
  Object[] opArgs,
  String[] sig)`

  Invokes a method on or through a RequiredModelMBean and returns
  the result of the method execution.

  `void`

  `load()`

  Instantiates this MBean instance with the data found for
  the MBean in the persistent store.

  `void`

  `postDeregister()`

  Allows the MBean to perform any operations needed after having been
  unregistered in the MBean server.

  `void`

  `postRegister(Boolean registrationDone)`

  Allows the MBean to perform any operations needed after having been
  registered in the MBean server or after the registration has failed.

  `void`

  `preDeregister()`

  Allows the MBean to perform any operations it needs before
  being unregistered by the MBean server.

  `ObjectName`

  `preRegister(MBeanServer server,
  ObjectName name)`

  Allows the MBean to perform any operations it needs before
  being registered in the MBean server.

  `void`

  `removeAttributeChangeNotificationListener(NotificationListener inlistener,
  String inAttributeName)`

  Removes a listener for attributeChangeNotifications from the RequiredModelMBean.

  `void`

  `removeNotificationListener(NotificationListener listener)`

  Removes a listener for Notifications from the RequiredModelMBean.

  `void`

  `removeNotificationListener(NotificationListener listener,
  NotificationFilter filter,
  Object handback)`

  Removes a listener from this MBean.

  `void`

  `sendAttributeChangeNotification(AttributeChangeNotification ntfyObj)`

  Sends an attributeChangeNotification which is passed in to
  the registered attributeChangeNotification listeners on the
  ModelMBean.

  `void`

  `sendAttributeChangeNotification(Attribute inOldVal,
  Attribute inNewVal)`

  Sends an attributeChangeNotification which contains the old value and new value for the
  attribute to the registered AttributeChangeNotification listeners on the ModelMBean.

  `void`

  `sendNotification(String ntfyText)`

  Sends a Notification which contains the text string that is passed in
  to the registered Notification listeners on the ModelMBean.

  `void`

  `sendNotification(Notification ntfyObj)`

  Sends a Notification which is passed in to the registered
  Notification listeners on the ModelMBean as a
  jmx.modelmbean.generic notification.

  `void`

  `setAttribute(Attribute attribute)`

  Sets the value of a specific attribute of a named ModelMBean.

  `AttributeList`

  `setAttributes(AttributeList attributes)`

  Sets the values of an array of attributes of this ModelMBean.

  `void`

  `setManagedResource(Object mr,
  String mr_type)`

  Sets the instance handle of the object against which to
  execute all methods in this ModelMBean management interface
  (MBeanInfo and Descriptors).

  `void`

  `setModelMBeanInfo(ModelMBeanInfo mbi)`

  Initializes a ModelMBean object using ModelMBeanInfo passed in.

  `void`

  `store()`

  Captures the current state of this MBean instance and writes
  it out to the persistent store.

  ### Methods inherited from class java.lang.[Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `clone, equals, finalize, getClass, hashCode, notify, notifyAll, toString, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Constructor Details

  + ### RequiredModelMBean

    public RequiredModelMBean()
    throws [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [RuntimeOperationsException](../RuntimeOperationsException.md "class in javax.management")

    Constructs an `RequiredModelMBean` with an empty
    ModelMBeanInfo.

    The RequiredModelMBean's MBeanInfo and Descriptors
    can be customized using the [`setModelMBeanInfo(javax.management.modelmbean.ModelMBeanInfo)`](#setModelMBeanInfo(javax.management.modelmbean.ModelMBeanInfo)) method.
    After the RequiredModelMBean's MBeanInfo and Descriptors are
    customized, the RequiredModelMBean can be registered with
    the MBeanServer.

    Throws:
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps a distributed communication Exception.
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps a [`RuntimeException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/RuntimeException.md "class in java.lang") during the construction of the object.
  + ### RequiredModelMBean

    public RequiredModelMBean([ModelMBeanInfo](ModelMBeanInfo.md "interface in javax.management.modelmbean") mbi)
    throws [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [RuntimeOperationsException](../RuntimeOperationsException.md "class in javax.management")

    Constructs a RequiredModelMBean object using ModelMBeanInfo passed in.
    As long as the RequiredModelMBean is not registered
    with the MBeanServer yet, the RequiredModelMBean's MBeanInfo and
    Descriptors can be customized using the [`setModelMBeanInfo(javax.management.modelmbean.ModelMBeanInfo)`](#setModelMBeanInfo(javax.management.modelmbean.ModelMBeanInfo))
    method.
    After the RequiredModelMBean's MBeanInfo and Descriptors are
    customized, the RequiredModelMBean can be registered with the
    MBeanServer.

    Parameters:
    :   `mbi` - The ModelMBeanInfo object to be used by the
        RequiredModelMBean. The given ModelMBeanInfo is cloned
        and modified as specified by [`setModelMBeanInfo(javax.management.modelmbean.ModelMBeanInfo)`](#setModelMBeanInfo(javax.management.modelmbean.ModelMBeanInfo))

    Throws:
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps a distributed communication Exception.
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps an
        [`IllegalArgumentException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/IllegalArgumentException.md "class in java.lang"):
        The MBeanInfo passed in parameter is null.
* ## Method Details

  + ### setModelMBeanInfo

    public void setModelMBeanInfo([ModelMBeanInfo](ModelMBeanInfo.md "interface in javax.management.modelmbean") mbi)
    throws [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [RuntimeOperationsException](../RuntimeOperationsException.md "class in javax.management")

    Initializes a ModelMBean object using ModelMBeanInfo passed in.
    This method makes it possible to set a customized ModelMBeanInfo on
    the ModelMBean as long as it is not registered with the MBeanServer.
      
    Once the ModelMBean's ModelMBeanInfo (with Descriptors) are
    customized and set on the ModelMBean, the ModelMBean be
    registered with the MBeanServer.

    If the ModelMBean is currently registered, this method throws
    a [`RuntimeOperationsException`](../RuntimeOperationsException.md "class in javax.management") wrapping an
    [`IllegalStateException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/IllegalStateException.md "class in java.lang")

    If the given inModelMBeanInfo does not contain any
    [`ModelMBeanNotificationInfo`](ModelMBeanNotificationInfo.md "class in javax.management.modelmbean") for the `GENERIC`
    or `ATTRIBUTE_CHANGE` notifications, then the
    RequiredModelMBean will supply its own default
    [`ModelMBeanNotificationInfo`](ModelMBeanNotificationInfo.md "class in javax.management.modelmbean")s for
    those missing notifications.

    Specified by:
    :   `setModelMBeanInfo` in interface `ModelMBean`

    Parameters:
    :   `mbi` - The ModelMBeanInfo object to be used
        by the ModelMBean.

    Throws:
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps a distributed communication
        Exception.
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` -
        - Wraps an [`IllegalArgumentException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/IllegalArgumentException.md "class in java.lang") if
          the MBeanInfo passed in parameter is null.
        - Wraps an [`IllegalStateException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/IllegalStateException.md "class in java.lang") if the ModelMBean
          is currently registered in the MBeanServer.
  + ### setManagedResource

    public void setManagedResource([Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") mr,
    [String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") mr\_type)
    throws [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [RuntimeOperationsException](../RuntimeOperationsException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [InstanceNotFoundException](../InstanceNotFoundException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [InvalidTargetObjectTypeException](InvalidTargetObjectTypeException.md "class in javax.management.modelmbean")

    Sets the instance handle of the object against which to
    execute all methods in this ModelMBean management interface
    (MBeanInfo and Descriptors).

    Specified by:
    :   `setManagedResource` in interface `ModelMBean`

    Parameters:
    :   `mr` - Object that is the managed resource
    :   `mr_type` - The type of reference for the managed resource.
          
        Can be: "ObjectReference", "Handle", "IOR", "EJBHandle",
        or "RMIReference".
          
        In this implementation only "ObjectReference" is supported.

    Throws:
    :   `MBeanException` - The initializer of the object has
        thrown an exception.
    :   `InstanceNotFoundException` - The managed resource
        object could not be found
    :   `InvalidTargetObjectTypeException` - The managed
        resource type should be "ObjectReference".
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps a [`RuntimeException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/RuntimeException.md "class in java.lang") when setting the resource.
  + ### load

    public void load()
    throws [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [RuntimeOperationsException](../RuntimeOperationsException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [InstanceNotFoundException](../InstanceNotFoundException.md "class in javax.management")

    Instantiates this MBean instance with the data found for
    the MBean in the persistent store. The data loaded could include
    attribute and operation values.

    This method should be called during construction or
    initialization of this instance, and before the MBean is
    registered with the MBeanServer.

    If the implementation of this class does not support
    persistence, an [`MBeanException`](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management") wrapping a [`ServiceNotFoundException`](../ServiceNotFoundException.md "class in javax.management") is thrown.

    Specified by:
    :   `load` in interface `PersistentMBean`

    Throws:
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps another exception, or
        persistence is not supported
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps exceptions from the
        persistence mechanism
    :   `InstanceNotFoundException` - Could not find or load
        this MBean from persistent storage
  + ### store

    public void store()
    throws [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [RuntimeOperationsException](../RuntimeOperationsException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [InstanceNotFoundException](../InstanceNotFoundException.md "class in javax.management")

    Captures the current state of this MBean instance and writes
    it out to the persistent store. The state stored could include
    attribute and operation values.

    If the implementation of this class does not support
    persistence, an [`MBeanException`](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management") wrapping a [`ServiceNotFoundException`](../ServiceNotFoundException.md "class in javax.management") is thrown.

    Persistence policy from the MBean and attribute descriptor
    is used to guide execution of this method. The MBean should be
    stored if 'persistPolicy' field is:

    ```
     != "never"
       = "always"
       = "onTimer" and now > 'lastPersistTime' + 'persistPeriod'
       = "NoMoreOftenThan" and now > 'lastPersistTime' + 'persistPeriod'
       = "onUnregister"
    ```

    Do not store the MBean if 'persistPolicy' field is:

    ```
        = "never"
        = "onUpdate"
        = "onTimer" && now < 'lastPersistTime' + 'persistPeriod'
    ```

    Specified by:
    :   `store` in interface `PersistentMBean`

    Throws:
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps another exception, or
        persistence is not supported
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps exceptions from the
        persistence mechanism
    :   `InstanceNotFoundException` - Could not find/access the
        persistent store
  + ### getMBeanInfo

    public [MBeanInfo](../MBeanInfo.md "class in javax.management") getMBeanInfo()

    Returns the attributes, operations, constructors and notifications
    that this RequiredModelMBean exposes for management.

    Specified by:
    :   `getMBeanInfo` in interface `DynamicMBean`

    Returns:
    :   An instance of ModelMBeanInfo allowing retrieval all
        attributes, operations, and Notifications of this MBean.
  + ### invoke

    public [Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") invoke([String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") opName,
    [Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")[] opArgs,
    [String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang")[] sig)
    throws [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [ReflectionException](../ReflectionException.md "class in javax.management")

    Invokes a method on or through a RequiredModelMBean and returns
    the result of the method execution.

    If the given method to be invoked, together with the provided
    signature, matches one of RequiredModelMbean
    accessible methods, this one will be call. Otherwise the call to
    the given method will be tried on the managed resource.

    The last value returned by an operation may be cached in
    the operation's descriptor which
    is in the ModelMBeanOperationInfo's descriptor.
    The valid value will be in the 'value' field if there is one.
    If the 'currencyTimeLimit' field in the descriptor is:
    - **<0** Then the value is not cached and is never valid.
      The operation method is invoked.
      The 'value' and 'lastUpdatedTimeStamp' fields are cleared.
    - **=0** Then the value is always cached and always valid.
      The 'value' field is returned. If there is no 'value' field
      then the operation method is invoked for the attribute.
      The 'lastUpdatedTimeStamp' field and `value' fields are set to
      the operation's return value and the current time stamp.
    - **>0** Represents the number of seconds that the 'value'
      field is valid.
      The 'value' field is no longer valid when
      'lastUpdatedTimeStamp' + 'currencyTimeLimit' > Now.
      * When 'value' is valid, 'value' is returned.
      * When 'value' is no longer valid then the operation
        method is invoked. The 'lastUpdatedTimeStamp' field
        and `value' fields are updated.

    **Note:** because of inconsistencies in previous versions of
    this specification, it is recommended not to use negative or zero
    values for `currencyTimeLimit`. To indicate that a
    cached value is never valid, omit the
    `currencyTimeLimit` field. To indicate that it is
    always valid, use a very large number for this field.

    Specified by:
    :   `invoke` in interface `DynamicMBean`

    Parameters:
    :   `opName` - The name of the method to be invoked. The
        name can be the fully qualified method name including the
        classname, or just the method name if the classname is
        defined in the 'class' field of the operation descriptor.
    :   `opArgs` - An array containing the parameters to be set
        when the operation is invoked
    :   `sig` - An array containing the signature of the
        operation. The class objects will be loaded using the same
        class loader as the one used for loading the MBean on which
        the operation was invoked.

    Returns:
    :   The object returned by the method, which represents the
        result of invoking the method on the specified managed resource.

    Throws:
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps one of the following Exceptions:
        - An Exception thrown by the managed object's invoked method.
        - [`ServiceNotFoundException`](../ServiceNotFoundException.md "class in javax.management"): No ModelMBeanOperationInfo or
          no descriptor defined for the specified operation or the managed
          resource is null.
        - [`InvalidTargetObjectTypeException`](InvalidTargetObjectTypeException.md "class in javax.management.modelmbean"): The 'targetType'
          field value is not 'objectReference'.
    :   `ReflectionException` - Wraps an [`Exception`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Exception.md "class in java.lang")
        thrown while trying to invoke the method.
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps an
        [`IllegalArgumentException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/IllegalArgumentException.md "class in java.lang") Method name is null.
  + ### getAttribute

    public [Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") getAttribute([String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") attrName)
    throws [AttributeNotFoundException](../AttributeNotFoundException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [ReflectionException](../ReflectionException.md "class in javax.management")

    Returns the value of a specific attribute defined for this
    ModelMBean.
    The last value returned by an attribute may be cached in the
    attribute's descriptor.
    The valid value will be in the 'value' field if there is one.
    If the 'currencyTimeLimit' field in the descriptor is:
    - **<0** Then the value is not cached and is never valid.
      The getter method is invoked for the attribute.
      The 'value' and 'lastUpdatedTimeStamp' fields are cleared.
    - **=0** Then the value is always cached and always valid.
      The 'value' field is returned. If there is no'value' field
      then the getter method is invoked for the attribute.
      The 'lastUpdatedTimeStamp' field and `value' fields are set
      to the attribute's value and the current time stamp.
    - **>0** Represents the number of seconds that the 'value'
      field is valid.
      The 'value' field is no longer valid when
      'lastUpdatedTimeStamp' + 'currencyTimeLimit' > Now.
      * When 'value' is valid, 'value' is returned.
      * When 'value' is no longer valid then the getter
        method is invoked for the attribute.
        The 'lastUpdatedTimeStamp' field and `value' fields
        are updated.

    **Note:** because of inconsistencies in previous versions of
    this specification, it is recommended not to use negative or zero
    values for `currencyTimeLimit`. To indicate that a
    cached value is never valid, omit the
    `currencyTimeLimit` field. To indicate that it is
    always valid, use a very large number for this field.

    If the 'getMethod' field contains the name of a valid
    operation descriptor, then the method described by the
    operation descriptor is executed. The response from the
    method is returned as the value of the attribute. If the
    operation fails or the returned value is not compatible with
    the declared type of the attribute, an exception will be thrown.

    If no 'getMethod' field is defined then the default value of the
    attribute is returned. If the returned value is not compatible with
    the declared type of the attribute, an exception will be thrown.

    The declared type of the attribute is the String returned by
    [`MBeanAttributeInfo.getType()`](../MBeanAttributeInfo.md#getType()). A value is compatible
    with this type if one of the following is true:
    - the value is null;
    - the declared name is a primitive type name (such as "int")
      and the value is an instance of the corresponding wrapper
      type (such as java.lang.Integer);
    - the name of the value's class is identical to the declared name;
    - the declared name can be loaded by the value's class loader and
      produces a class to which the value can be assigned.

    In this implementation, in every case where the getMethod needs to
    be called, because the method is invoked through the standard "invoke"
    method and thus needs operationInfo, an operation must be specified
    for that getMethod so that the invocation works correctly.

    Specified by:
    :   `getAttribute` in interface `DynamicMBean`

    Parameters:
    :   `attrName` - A String specifying the name of the
        attribute to be retrieved. It must match the name of a
        ModelMBeanAttributeInfo.

    Returns:
    :   The value of the retrieved attribute from the
        descriptor 'value' field or from the invocation of the
        operation in the 'getMethod' field of the descriptor.

    Throws:
    :   `AttributeNotFoundException` - The specified attribute is
        not accessible in the MBean.
        The following cases may result in an AttributeNotFoundException:
        - No ModelMBeanInfo was found for the Model MBean.
        - No ModelMBeanAttributeInfo was found for the specified
          attribute name.
        - The ModelMBeanAttributeInfo isReadable method returns
          'false'.
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps one of the following Exceptions:
        - [`InvalidAttributeValueException`](../InvalidAttributeValueException.md "class in javax.management"): A wrong value type
          was received from the attribute's getter method or
          no 'getMethod' field defined in the descriptor for
          the attribute and no default value exists.
        - [`ServiceNotFoundException`](../ServiceNotFoundException.md "class in javax.management"): No
          ModelMBeanOperationInfo defined for the attribute's
          getter method or no descriptor associated with the
          ModelMBeanOperationInfo or the managed resource is
          null.
        - [`InvalidTargetObjectTypeException`](InvalidTargetObjectTypeException.md "class in javax.management.modelmbean") The 'targetType'
          field value is not 'objectReference'.
        - An Exception thrown by the managed object's getter.
    :   `ReflectionException` - Wraps an [`Exception`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Exception.md "class in java.lang")
        thrown while trying to invoke the getter.
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps an
        [`IllegalArgumentException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/IllegalArgumentException.md "class in java.lang"): The attribute name in
        parameter is null.

    See Also:
    :   - [`setAttribute(javax.management.Attribute)`](#setAttribute(javax.management.Attribute))
  + ### getAttributes

    public [AttributeList](../AttributeList.md "class in javax.management") getAttributes([String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang")[] attrNames)

    Returns the values of several attributes in the ModelMBean.
    Executes a getAttribute for each attribute name in the
    attrNames array passed in.

    Specified by:
    :   `getAttributes` in interface `DynamicMBean`

    Parameters:
    :   `attrNames` - A String array of names of the attributes
        to be retrieved.

    Returns:
    :   The array of the retrieved attributes.

    Throws:
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps an
        [`IllegalArgumentException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/IllegalArgumentException.md "class in java.lang"): The object name in parameter is
        null or attributes in parameter is null.

    See Also:
    :   - [`setAttributes(javax.management.AttributeList)`](#setAttributes(javax.management.AttributeList))
  + ### setAttribute

    public void setAttribute([Attribute](../Attribute.md "class in javax.management") attribute)
    throws [AttributeNotFoundException](../AttributeNotFoundException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [InvalidAttributeValueException](../InvalidAttributeValueException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [ReflectionException](../ReflectionException.md "class in javax.management")

    Sets the value of a specific attribute of a named ModelMBean.
    If the 'setMethod' field of the attribute's descriptor
    contains the name of a valid operation descriptor, then the
    method described by the operation descriptor is executed.
    In this implementation, the operation descriptor must be specified
    correctly and assigned to the modelMBeanInfo so that the 'setMethod'
    works correctly.
    The response from the method is set as the value of the attribute
    in the descriptor.

    If currencyTimeLimit is > 0, then the new value for the
    attribute is cached in the attribute descriptor's
    'value' field and the 'lastUpdatedTimeStamp' field is set to
    the current time stamp.

    If the persist field of the attribute's descriptor is not null
    then Persistence policy from the attribute descriptor is used to
    guide storing the attribute in a persistent store.
      
    Store the MBean if 'persistPolicy' field is:
    - != "never"
    - = "always"
    - = "onUpdate"
    - = "onTimer" and now > 'lastPersistTime' + 'persistPeriod'
    - = "NoMoreOftenThan" and now > 'lastPersistTime' +
      'persistPeriod'Do not store the MBean if 'persistPolicy' field is:
    - = "never"
    - = = "onTimer" && now < 'lastPersistTime' + 'persistPeriod'
    - = "onUnregister"
    - = = "NoMoreOftenThan" and now < 'lastPersistTime' +
      'persistPeriod'

    The ModelMBeanInfo of the Model MBean is stored in a file.

    Specified by:
    :   `setAttribute` in interface `DynamicMBean`

    Parameters:
    :   `attribute` - The Attribute instance containing the name of
        the attribute to be set and the value it is to be set to.

    Throws:
    :   `AttributeNotFoundException` - The specified attribute is
        not accessible in the MBean.
          
        The following cases may result in an AttributeNotFoundException:
        - No ModelMBeanAttributeInfo is found for the specified
          attribute.
        - The ModelMBeanAttributeInfo's isWritable method returns
          'false'.
    :   `InvalidAttributeValueException` - No descriptor is defined
        for the specified attribute.
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps one of the following Exceptions:
        - An Exception thrown by the managed object's setter.
        - A [`ServiceNotFoundException`](../ServiceNotFoundException.md "class in javax.management") if a setMethod field is
          defined in the descriptor for the attribute and the managed
          resource is null; or if no setMethod field is defined and
          caching is not enabled for the attribute.
          Note that if there is no getMethod field either, then caching
          is automatically enabled.
        - [`InvalidTargetObjectTypeException`](InvalidTargetObjectTypeException.md "class in javax.management.modelmbean") The 'targetType'
          field value is not 'objectReference'.
        - An Exception thrown by the managed object's getter.
    :   `ReflectionException` - Wraps an [`Exception`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Exception.md "class in java.lang")
        thrown while trying to invoke the setter.
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps an
        [`IllegalArgumentException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/IllegalArgumentException.md "class in java.lang"): The attribute in parameter is
        null.

    See Also:
    :   - [`getAttribute(java.lang.String)`](#getAttribute(java.lang.String))
  + ### setAttributes

    public [AttributeList](../AttributeList.md "class in javax.management") setAttributes([AttributeList](../AttributeList.md "class in javax.management") attributes)

    Sets the values of an array of attributes of this ModelMBean.
    Executes the setAttribute() method for each attribute in the list.

    Specified by:
    :   `setAttributes` in interface `DynamicMBean`

    Parameters:
    :   `attributes` - A list of attributes: The identification of the
        attributes to be set and the values they are to be set to.

    Returns:
    :   The array of attributes that were set, with their new
        values in Attribute instances.

    Throws:
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps an
        [`IllegalArgumentException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/IllegalArgumentException.md "class in java.lang"): The object name in parameter
        is null or attributes in parameter is null.

    See Also:
    :   - [`getAttributes(java.lang.String[])`](#getAttributes(java.lang.String%5B%5D))
  + ### addNotificationListener

    public void addNotificationListener([NotificationListener](../NotificationListener.md "interface in javax.management") listener,
    [NotificationFilter](../NotificationFilter.md "interface in javax.management") filter,
    [Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") handback)
    throws [IllegalArgumentException](../../../../java.base/java/lang/IllegalArgumentException.md "class in java.lang")

    Registers an object which implements the NotificationListener
    interface as a listener. This
    object's 'handleNotification()' method will be invoked when any
    notification is issued through or by the ModelMBean. This does
    not include attributeChangeNotifications. They must be registered
    for independently.

    Specified by:
    :   `addNotificationListener` in interface `NotificationBroadcaster`

    Parameters:
    :   `listener` - The listener object which will handles
        notifications emitted by the registered MBean.
    :   `filter` - The filter object. If null, no filtering will be
        performed before handling notifications.
    :   `handback` - The context to be sent to the listener with
        the notification when a notification is emitted.

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - The listener cannot be null.

    See Also:
    :   - [`removeNotificationListener(javax.management.NotificationListener)`](#removeNotificationListener(javax.management.NotificationListener))
  + ### removeNotificationListener

    public void removeNotificationListener([NotificationListener](../NotificationListener.md "interface in javax.management") listener)
    throws [ListenerNotFoundException](../ListenerNotFoundException.md "class in javax.management")

    Removes a listener for Notifications from the RequiredModelMBean.

    Specified by:
    :   `removeNotificationListener` in interface `NotificationBroadcaster`

    Parameters:
    :   `listener` - The listener name which was handling notifications
        emitted by the registered MBean.
        This method will remove all information related to this listener.

    Throws:
    :   `ListenerNotFoundException` - The listener is not registered
        in the MBean or is null.

    See Also:
    :   - [`addNotificationListener(javax.management.NotificationListener, javax.management.NotificationFilter, java.lang.Object)`](#addNotificationListener(javax.management.NotificationListener,javax.management.NotificationFilter,java.lang.Object))
  + ### removeNotificationListener

    public void removeNotificationListener([NotificationListener](../NotificationListener.md "interface in javax.management") listener,
    [NotificationFilter](../NotificationFilter.md "interface in javax.management") filter,
    [Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") handback)
    throws [ListenerNotFoundException](../ListenerNotFoundException.md "class in javax.management")

    Description copied from interface: `NotificationEmitter`

    Removes a listener from this MBean. The MBean must have a
    listener that exactly matches the given `listener`,
    `filter`, and `handback` parameters. If
    there is more than one such listener, only one is removed.

    The `filter` and `handback` parameters
    may be null if and only if they are null in a listener to be
    removed.

    Specified by:
    :   `removeNotificationListener` in interface `NotificationEmitter`

    Parameters:
    :   `listener` - A listener that was previously added to this
        MBean.
    :   `filter` - The filter that was specified when the listener
        was added.
    :   `handback` - The handback that was specified when the listener was
        added.

    Throws:
    :   `ListenerNotFoundException` - The listener is not
        registered with the MBean, or it is not registered with the
        given filter and handback.
  + ### sendNotification

    public void sendNotification([Notification](../Notification.md "class in javax.management") ntfyObj)
    throws [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [RuntimeOperationsException](../RuntimeOperationsException.md "class in javax.management")

    Description copied from interface: `ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster`

    Sends a Notification which is passed in to the registered
    Notification listeners on the ModelMBean as a
    jmx.modelmbean.generic notification.

    Specified by:
    :   `sendNotification` in interface `ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster`

    Parameters:
    :   `ntfyObj` - The notification which is to be passed to
        the 'handleNotification' method of the listener object.

    Throws:
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps a distributed communication Exception.
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps an IllegalArgumentException:
        The Notification object passed in parameter is null.
  + ### sendNotification

    public void sendNotification([String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") ntfyText)
    throws [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [RuntimeOperationsException](../RuntimeOperationsException.md "class in javax.management")

    Description copied from interface: `ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster`

    Sends a Notification which contains the text string that is passed in
    to the registered Notification listeners on the ModelMBean.

    Specified by:
    :   `sendNotification` in interface `ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster`

    Parameters:
    :   `ntfyText` - The text which is to be passed in the Notification to the 'handleNotification'
        method of the listener object.
        the constructed Notification will be:
        type "jmx.modelmbean.generic"
        source this ModelMBean instance
        sequence 1

    Throws:
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps a distributed communication Exception.
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps an IllegalArgumentException:
        The Notification text string passed in parameter is null.
  + ### getNotificationInfo

    public [MBeanNotificationInfo](../MBeanNotificationInfo.md "class in javax.management")[] getNotificationInfo()

    Returns the array of Notifications always generated by the
    RequiredModelMBean.

    RequiredModelMBean may always send also two additional notifications:
    - One with descriptor `"name=GENERIC,descriptorType=notification,log=T,severity=6,displayName=jmx.modelmbean.generic"`
    - Second is a standard attribute change notification
      with descriptor `"name=ATTRIBUTE_CHANGE,descriptorType=notification,log=T,severity=6,displayName=jmx.attribute.change"`Thus these two notifications are always added to those specified
    by the application.

    Specified by:
    :   `getNotificationInfo` in interface `NotificationBroadcaster`

    Returns:
    :   MBeanNotificationInfo[]
  + ### addAttributeChangeNotificationListener

    public void addAttributeChangeNotificationListener([NotificationListener](../NotificationListener.md "interface in javax.management") inlistener,
    [String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") inAttributeName,
    [Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") inhandback)
    throws [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [RuntimeOperationsException](../RuntimeOperationsException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [IllegalArgumentException](../../../../java.base/java/lang/IllegalArgumentException.md "class in java.lang")

    Description copied from interface: `ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster`

    Registers an object which implements the NotificationListener interface as a listener. This
    object's 'handleNotification()' method will be invoked when any attributeChangeNotification is issued through
    or by the ModelMBean. This does not include other Notifications. They must be registered
    for independently. An AttributeChangeNotification will be generated for this attributeName.

    Specified by:
    :   `addAttributeChangeNotificationListener` in interface `ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster`

    Parameters:
    :   `inlistener` - The listener object which will handles notifications emitted by the registered MBean.
    :   `inAttributeName` - The name of the ModelMBean attribute for which to receive change notifications.
        If null, then all attribute changes will cause an attributeChangeNotification to be issued.
    :   `inhandback` - The context to be sent to the listener with the notification when a notification is emitted.

    Throws:
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps a distributed communication Exception.
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps an IllegalArgumentException The attribute name passed in parameter does not exist.
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - The listener cannot be null.

    See Also:
    :   - [`ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster.removeAttributeChangeNotificationListener(javax.management.NotificationListener, java.lang.String)`](ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster.md#removeAttributeChangeNotificationListener(javax.management.NotificationListener,java.lang.String))
  + ### removeAttributeChangeNotificationListener

    public void removeAttributeChangeNotificationListener([NotificationListener](../NotificationListener.md "interface in javax.management") inlistener,
    [String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") inAttributeName)
    throws [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [RuntimeOperationsException](../RuntimeOperationsException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [ListenerNotFoundException](../ListenerNotFoundException.md "class in javax.management")

    Description copied from interface: `ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster`

    Removes a listener for attributeChangeNotifications from the RequiredModelMBean.

    Specified by:
    :   `removeAttributeChangeNotificationListener` in interface `ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster`

    Parameters:
    :   `inlistener` - The listener name which was handling notifications emitted by the registered MBean.
        This method will remove all information related to this listener.
    :   `inAttributeName` - The attribute for which the listener no longer wants to receive attributeChangeNotifications.
        If null the listener will be removed for all attributeChangeNotifications.

    Throws:
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps a distributed communication Exception.
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps an IllegalArgumentException If the inAttributeName parameter does not
        correspond to an attribute name.
    :   `ListenerNotFoundException` - The listener is not registered in the MBean or is null.

    See Also:
    :   - [`ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster.addAttributeChangeNotificationListener(javax.management.NotificationListener, java.lang.String, java.lang.Object)`](ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster.md#addAttributeChangeNotificationListener(javax.management.NotificationListener,java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
  + ### sendAttributeChangeNotification

    public void sendAttributeChangeNotification([AttributeChangeNotification](../AttributeChangeNotification.md "class in javax.management") ntfyObj)
    throws [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [RuntimeOperationsException](../RuntimeOperationsException.md "class in javax.management")

    Description copied from interface: `ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster`

    Sends an attributeChangeNotification which is passed in to
    the registered attributeChangeNotification listeners on the
    ModelMBean.

    Specified by:
    :   `sendAttributeChangeNotification` in interface `ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster`

    Parameters:
    :   `ntfyObj` - The notification which is to be passed
        to the 'handleNotification' method of the listener object.

    Throws:
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps a distributed communication Exception.
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps an IllegalArgumentException: The AttributeChangeNotification object passed in parameter is null.
  + ### sendAttributeChangeNotification

    public void sendAttributeChangeNotification([Attribute](../Attribute.md "class in javax.management") inOldVal,
    [Attribute](../Attribute.md "class in javax.management") inNewVal)
    throws [MBeanException](../MBeanException.md "class in javax.management"),
    [RuntimeOperationsException](../RuntimeOperationsException.md "class in javax.management")

    Description copied from interface: `ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster`

    Sends an attributeChangeNotification which contains the old value and new value for the
    attribute to the registered AttributeChangeNotification listeners on the ModelMBean.

    Specified by:
    :   `sendAttributeChangeNotification` in interface `ModelMBeanNotificationBroadcaster`

    Parameters:
    :   `inOldVal` - The original value for the Attribute
    :   `inNewVal` - The current value for the Attribute

        ```
         The constructed attributeChangeNotification will be:
           type        "jmx.attribute.change"
           source      this ModelMBean instance
           sequence    1
           attributeName oldValue.getName()
           attributeType oldValue's class
           attributeOldValue oldValue.getValue()
           attributeNewValue newValue.getValue()
        ```

    Throws:
    :   `MBeanException` - Wraps a distributed communication Exception.
    :   `RuntimeOperationsException` - Wraps an IllegalArgumentException: An Attribute object passed in parameter is null
        or the names of the two Attribute objects in parameter are not the same.
  + ### getClassLoaderRepository

    protected [ClassLoaderRepository](../loading/ClassLoaderRepository.md "interface in javax.management.loading") getClassLoaderRepository()

    Return the Class Loader Repository used to perform class loading.
    Subclasses may wish to redefine this method in order to return
    the appropriate [`ClassLoaderRepository`](../loading/ClassLoaderRepository.md "interface in javax.management.loading")
    that should be used in this object.

    Returns:
    :   the Class Loader Repository.
  + ### preRegister

    public [ObjectName](../ObjectName.md "class in javax.management") preRegister([MBeanServer](../MBeanServer.md "interface in javax.management") server,
    [ObjectName](../ObjectName.md "class in javax.management") name)
    throws [Exception](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Exception.md "class in java.lang")

    Allows the MBean to perform any operations it needs before
    being registered in the MBean server. If the name of the MBean
    is not specified, the MBean can provide a name for its
    registration. If any exception is raised, the MBean will not be
    registered in the MBean server.

    In order to ensure proper run-time semantics of RequireModelMBean,
    Any subclass of RequiredModelMBean overloading or overriding this
    method should call `super.preRegister(server, name)`
    in its own `preRegister` implementation.

    Specified by:
    :   `preRegister` in interface `MBeanRegistration`

    Parameters:
    :   `server` - The MBean server in which the MBean will be registered.
    :   `name` - The object name of the MBean. This name is null if
        the name parameter to one of the `createMBean` or
        `registerMBean` methods in the [`MBeanServer`](../MBeanServer.md "interface in javax.management")
        interface is null. In that case, this method must return a
        non-null ObjectName for the new MBean.

    Returns:
    :   The name under which the MBean is to be registered.
        This value must not be null. If the `name`
        parameter is not null, it will usually but not necessarily be
        the returned value.

    Throws:
    :   `Exception` - This exception will be caught by
        the MBean server and re-thrown as an
        [`MBeanRegistrationException`](../MBeanRegistrationException.md "class in javax.management").
  + ### postRegister

    public void postRegister([Boolean](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Boolean.md "class in java.lang") registrationDone)

    Allows the MBean to perform any operations needed after having been
    registered in the MBean server or after the registration has failed.

    In order to ensure proper run-time semantics of RequireModelMBean,
    Any subclass of RequiredModelMBean overloading or overriding this
    method should call `super.postRegister(registrationDone)`
    in its own `postRegister` implementation.

    Specified by:
    :   `postRegister` in interface `MBeanRegistration`

    Parameters:
    :   `registrationDone` - Indicates whether or not the MBean has
        been successfully registered in the MBean server. The value
        false means that the registration phase has failed.
  + ### preDeregister

    public void preDeregister()
    throws [Exception](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Exception.md "class in java.lang")

    Allows the MBean to perform any operations it needs before
    being unregistered by the MBean server.

    In order to ensure proper run-time semantics of RequireModelMBean,
    Any subclass of RequiredModelMBean overloading or overriding this
    method should call `super.preDeregister()` in its own
    `preDeregister` implementation.

    Specified by:
    :   `preDeregister` in interface `MBeanRegistration`

    Throws:
    :   `Exception` - This exception will be caught by
        the MBean server and re-thrown as an
        [`MBeanRegistrationException`](../MBeanRegistrationException.md "class in javax.management").
  + ### postDeregister

    public void postDeregister()

    Allows the MBean to perform any operations needed after having been
    unregistered in the MBean server.

    In order to ensure proper run-time semantics of RequireModelMBean,
    Any subclass of RequiredModelMBean overloading or overriding this
    method should call `super.postDeregister()` in its own
    `postDeregister` implementation.

    Specified by:
    :   `postDeregister` in interface `MBeanRegistration`