Gradle target name 

Target triple 

Running tests 

Description 

`iosX64 x86_64-apple-ios-` ✅ Apple iOS simulator 15.0 and later on x86-64 `simulator` platforms 

The `linuxArm32Hfp` target is deprecated and will be removed in future releases. 

## **Deprecated targets** 

Starting with Kotlin 2.3.20, the following targets are deprecated: 

- `macosX64` (Apple macOS on x86_64 platforms) 

- `watchosX64` (Apple watchOS 64-bit simulator on x86_64 platforms) 

- `tvosX64` (Apple tvOS simulator on x86_64 platforms) 

## **Supporting lower Apple target versions** 

Currently, the default minimum supported versions of Apple targets are: 

- For iOS and tvOS, 15.0. 

- 

   - For macOS, 12.0. 

- For watchOS, 8.0. 

If your project needs to support a version lower than the default one, use the `freeCompilerArgs` option in your build file: 

```
kotlin {
    targets.withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.plugin.mpp.KotlinNativeTarget>().configureEach{
        binaries.configureEach{
            freeCompilerArgs +="-Xoverride-konan-properties=minVersion.ios=14.0"
            freeCompilerArgs +="-Xoverride-konan-properties=minVersion.macos=11.0"
            freeCompilerArgs +="-Xoverride-konan-properties=minVersion.tvos=14.0"
            freeCompilerArgs +="-Xoverride-konan-properties=minVersion.watchos=7.0"
}
}
}
```

## **For library authors** 

We don't recommend library authors to test more targets or provide stricter guarantees than the Kotlin/Native compiler does. You can use the following approach when considering support for native targets: 

- Support all the targets from tiers 1, 2, and 3. 

- Regularly test targets from tiers 1 and 2 that support running tests out of the box. 

The Kotlin team uses this approach in the official Kotlin libraries, for example, kotlinx.coroutines and kotlinx.serialization. 

701 

## **Hosts** 

The Kotlin/Native compiler supports the following hosts: 

|Host OS|Building final binaries|Producing<br>`.klib` artifacts|
|---|---|---|
|macOS on Apple silicon (ARM64)|Any supported target|Any supported target|
|macOS on Intel chips (x86_64)|Any supported target|Any supported target|
|Linux with x86_64 architecture|Any supported target, except|Any supported target, Apple targets only|
||for Apple targets|without cinterop dependencies|
|Windows (MinGW toolchain) with|Any supported target, except|Any supported target, Apple targets only|
|x86_64 architecture|for Apple targets|without cinterop dependencies|



## **Building final binaries** 

To produce final binaries, you can compile for supported targets only on supported hosts. For example, you cannot do it on FreeBSD or on a Linux machine running on the ARM64 architecture. 

Building final binaries for Apple targets on Linux and Windows is also not possible. 

## **Producing** **`.klib` artifacts** 

Generally, Kotlin/Native allows any supported host to produce `.klib` artifacts for supported targets. 

However, artifact production for Apple targets still has some limitations on Linux and Windows. If your project uses cinterop dependencies (including CocoaPods), you must use a macOS host. 

For example, you can produce a `.klib` for `macosArm64` target on a Windows machine running on the x86_64 architecture only if there are no cinterop dependencies. 

## **What's next?** 

- Build final native binaries 

- Compilation for Apple targets 

## **Tips for improving compilation time** 

The Kotlin/Native compiler is constantly receiving updates that improve its performance. With the latest Kotlin/Native compiler and a properly configured build environment, you can significantly improve the compilation times of your projects with Kotlin/Native targets. 

Read on for our tips on how to speed up the Kotlin/Native compilation process. 

702 

## **General recommendations** 

## **Use the latest version of Kotlin** 

This way, you always get the latest performance improvements. The most recent Kotlin version is 2.4.0. 

## **Avoid creating huge classes** 

Try to avoid huge classes that take a long time to compile and load during execution. 

## **Preserve downloaded and cached components between builds** 

When compiling projects, Kotlin/Native downloads the required components and caches some results of its work to the `$USER_HOME/.konan` directory. The compiler uses this directory for subsequent compilations, making them take less time to complete. 

When building in containers (such as Docker) or with continuous integration systems, the compiler may have to create the `~/.konan` directory from scratch for each build. To avoid this step, configure your environment to preserve `~/.konan` between builds. For example, redefine its location using the `konan.data.dir` Gradle property. 

Alternatively, you can use the `-Xkonan-data-dir` compiler option to configure your custom path to the directory via the `cinterop` and `konanc` tools. 

## **Gradle configuration** 

The first compilation with Gradle usually takes more time than subsequent ones due to the need to download the dependencies, build caches, and perform additional steps. You should build your project at least twice to get an accurate reading of the actual compilation times. 

Below are some recommendations for configuring Gradle for better compilation performance. 

## **Increase Gradle heap size** 

To increase the Gradle heap size, add `org.gradle.jvmargs=-Xmx3g` to your `gradle.properties` file. 

If you use parallel builds, you might need to choose the right number of workers with the 

`org.gradle.workers.max` property or the `--max-workers` command-line option. The default value is the number of CPU processors. 

## **Build only necessary binaries** 

Don't run Gradle tasks that build the whole project, such as `build` or `assemble` , unless you really need to. These tasks build the same code more than once, increasing the compilation times. In typical cases, such as running tests from IntelliJ IDEA or starting the app from Xcode, the Kotlin tooling avoids executing unnecessary tasks. 

If you have a non-typical case or build configuration, you might need to choose the task yourself: 

- `linkDebug*` . To run your code during development, you usually need only one binary, so running the 

- corresponding `linkDebug*` task should be enough. 

- `embedAndSignAppleFrameworkForXcode` . Since iOS simulators and devices have different processor 

- architectures, it's a common approach to distribute a Kotlin/Native binary as a universal (fat) framework. 

703 

However, during local development, it's faster to build the `.framework` file only for the platform you're using. To build a platform-specific framework, use the embedAndSignAppleFrameworkForXcode task. 

## **Build only for necessary targets** 

Similarly to the recommendation above, don't build a binary for all native platforms at once. For example, compiling an XCFramework (using an `*XCFramework` task) builds the same code for all targets, which takes proportionally more time than building for a single target. 

If you do need XCFrameworks for your setup, you can reduce the number of targets. For example, you don't need `iosX64` if you don't run this project on iOS simulators on Intel-based Macs. 

Binaries for different targets are built with `linkDebug*$Target` and `linkRelease*$Target` Gradle tasks. You can look for the executed tasks in the build log or in the Gradle build scan by running a Gradle build with the `--scan` option. 

## **Don't build unnecessary release binaries** 

Kotlin/Native supports two build modes, debug and release. Release is highly optimized, and this takes a lot of time: compilation of release binaries takes an order of magnitude more time than debug binaries. 

Apart from an actual release, all these optimizations might be unnecessary in a typical development cycle. If you use a task with `Release` in its name during the development process, consider replacing it with `Debug` . Similarly, instead of running `assembleXCFramework` , you can run `assembleSharedDebugXCFramework` , for example. 

Release binaries are built with `linkRelease*` Gradle tasks. You can check for them in the build log or in the Gradle build scan by running a Gradle build with the `--scan` option. 

## Experimental 

## **Reduce the size of release binaries** 

To reduce the size of release binaries and improve build time, try enabling the binary option `smallBinary` . 

It effectively sets `-Oz` as the default optimization argument for the compiler during the LLVM compilation phase. The option is still Experimental and might affect runtime performance in some cases. 

## **Don't disable Gradle daemon** 

Don't disable the Gradle daemon without having a good reason. By default, Kotlin/Native runs from the Gradle daemon. When it's enabled, the same JVM process is used, and there is no need to warm it up for each compilation. 

## **Don't use transitive export** 

Using `transitiveExport = true` disables dead code elimination in many cases, so the compiler has to process a lot of unused code. It increases the compilation time. Instead, use the `export` method explicitly for exporting the required projects and dependencies. 

704 

## **Don't export modules too much** 

Try to avoid unnecessary module export. Each exported module negatively affects compilation time and binary size. 

## **Use Gradle build caching** 

Enable the Gradle build cache feature: 

- **Local build cache** . For local caching, add `org.gradle.caching=true` to your `gradle.properties` file or run the build with the `--build-cache` option in the command line. 

- **Remote build cache** . Learn how to configure the remote build cache for continuous integration environments. 

## **Use Gradle configuration cache** 

The Gradle configuration cache improves build performance by caching the results of the configuration phase. It also enables parallel execution of independent tasks within a single project and implicitly enables the `org.gradle.parallel` property, allowing tasks across different projects to execute in parallel. 

To use the Gradle configuration cache, add the `org.gradle.configuration-cache=true` property to your `gradle.properties` file. 

The configuration cache also enables running `link*` tasks in parallel which could heavily load the - machine, specifically with a lot of CPU cores. This issue will be fixed in KT 70915. 

## **Enable previously disabled features** 

There are Kotlin/Native options that disable the Gradle daemon and compiler caches: 

- 

   - `kotlin.native.disableCompilerDaemon=true` 

- `disableNativeCache` DSL in the `binaries {}` block of your Gradle build file. 

If you had issues with these features before and added these lines to your `gradle.properties` file or Gradle build files, remove them and check whether the build completes successfully. It is possible that these properties were added previously to work around issues that have already been fixed. 

## **Try incremental compilation of klib artifacts** 

With incremental compilation, if only a part of the `klib` artifact produced by the project module changes, just a part of `klib` is further recompiled into a binary. 

This feature is Experimental. To enable it, add the `kotlin.incremental.native=true` option to your `gradle.properties` file. If you face any problems, create an issue in YouTrack. 

## **Windows configuration** 

Windows Security may slow down the Kotlin/Native compiler. You can avoid this by adding the `.konan` directory, which is located in `%USERPROFILE%` by default, to Windows Security exclusions. Learn how to add exclusions to Windows Security. 

705 

## **LLVM configuration** 

If the above tips didn't help with improving compilation time, consider customizing the LLVM backend. 

## **Tips for customizing LLVM backend** 

The Kotlin/Native compiler uses LLVM to optimize and generate binary executables for different target platforms. A noticeable part of the compilation time is also spent in LLVM, and for large apps, this can end up taking an unacceptably long time. 

You can customize how Kotlin/Native uses LLVM and adjust the list of optimization passes. 

## **Examine the build log** 

Let's take a look at the build log to understand how much compilation time is spent on LLVM optimization passes: 

1. Run the `linkRelease*` Gradle task with `-Pkotlin.internal.compiler.arguments.log.level=warning` option to make Gradle output LLVM profiling details, for example: 

```
./gradlew linkReleaseExecutableMacosArm64 -Pkotlin.internal.compiler.arguments.log.level=warning
```

While executing, the task prints the necessary compiler arguments, for example: 

```
> Task :linkReleaseExecutableMacosArm64
Run in-process tool "konanc"
Entry point method = org.jetbrains.kotlin.cli.utilities.MainKt.daemonMain
Classpath = [
        /Users/user/.konan/kotlin-native-prebuilt-macos-aarch64-2.2.0/konan/lib/kotlin-native-
compiler-embeddable.jar
        /Users/user/.konan/kotlin-native-prebuilt-macos-aarch64-2.2.0/konan/lib/trove4j.jar
]
Arguments = [
        -Xinclude=//.
        -library
        /Users/user/.konan/kotlin-native-prebuilt-macos-aarch64-2.2.0/klib/common/stdlib
        -no-endorsed-libs
        -nostdlib
        //.
]
```

2. Run the command line compiler with the provided arguments plus the `-Xprofile-phases` argument, for example: 

```
/Users/user/.konan/kotlin-native-prebuilt-macos-aarch64-2.2.0/bin/kotlinc-native \
-Xinclude=. \
```

```
-library /Users/user/.konan/kotlin-native-prebuilt-macos-aarch64-2.2.0/klib/common/stdlib \
. \
-Xprofile-phases
```

3. Examine the generated output in the build log. The log can contain tens of thousands of lines; sections with LLVM profiling are at the end. 

Here is an excerpt from such a run of a simple Kotlin/Native program: 

706 

```
Frontend: 275 msec
PsiToIr: 1186 msec
//.
//. 30k lines
//.
LinkBitcodeDependencies: 476 msec
StackProtectorPhase: 0 msec
MandatoryBitcodeLLVMPostprocessingPhase: 2 msec
//=-------------------------------------------------------------------------//=
                          Pass execution timing report
//=-------------------------------------------------------------------------//=
  Total Execution Time: 6.7726 seconds (6.7192 wall clock)
```

```
   //-User Time//-   /-System Time/-   /-User+System/-   //-Wall Time//-  //- Name //-
   0.9778 ( 22.4%)   0.5043 ( 21.0%)   1.4821 ( 21.9%)   1.4628 ( 21.8%)  InstCombinePass
   0.3827 (  8.8%)   0.2497 ( 10.4%)   0.6323 (  9.3%)   0.6283 (  9.4%)  InlinerPass
   0.2815 (  6.4%)   0.1792 (  7.5%)   0.4608 (  6.8%)   0.4555 (  6.8%)  SimplifyCFGPass
//.
   0.6444 (100.0%)   0.5474 (100.0%)   1.1917 (100.0%)   1.1870 (100.0%)  Total
ModuleBitcodeOptimization: 8118 msec
//.
LTOBitcodeOptimization: 1399 msec
//.
```

The Kotlin/Native compiler runs two separate sequences of LLVM optimizations: the module passes and the linktime passes. For a typical compilation, the two pipelines are run back to back, and the only real distinction is in which LLVM optimization passes they run. 

In the log above, the two LLVM optimizations are `ModuleBitcodeOptimization` and `LTOBitcodeOptimization` . The formatted tables are the optimizations' output with timing for each pass. 

## **Customize LLVM optimization passes** 

If one of the passes above seems unreasonably long, you can skip it. However, this might hurt runtime performance, so you should check for changes in the benchmarks' performance afterward. 

Currently, there is no direct way to disable a given pass. However, you can provide a new list of passes to run by using the following compiler options: 

**Option Default value for release binary** 

```
-Xllvm-module-passes"default<O3>"
```

```
-Xllvm-lto-passes"internalize,globaldce,lto<O3>"
```

The default values are unfolded to a long list of actual passes, from which you need to exclude the undesired ones. 

To get the list of actual passes, run the `opt` tool, which is automatically downloaded with the LLVM distribution to the `~/.konan/dependencies/llvm-{VERSION}-{ARCH}-{OS}-dev-{BUILD}/bin` directory. 

For example, to get the list of the link-time passes, run: 

```
opt -print-pipeline-passes -passes="internalize,globaldce,lto<O3>"< /dev/null
```

This outputs a warning and a long list of passes, which depends on the LLVM version. 

707 

There are two differences between the list of passes from the `opt` tool and the passes that Kotlin/Native compiler actually runs: 

- Since `opt` is a debug tool, it includes one or more `verify` passes, which are not normally run. 

- Kotlin/Native disables the `devirt` passes since the Kotlin compiler already does them itself. 

After disabling any passes, always rerun performance tests to check if the runtime performance degradation is acceptable. 

## **License files for the Kotlin/Native binaries** 

Like many other open-source projects, Kotlin relies on third-party code, meaning that the Kotlin project includes some code not developed by JetBrains or the Kotlin programming language contributors. Sometimes it is derived work, such as code rewritten from C++ to Kotlin. 

You can find licenses for the third-party work used in Kotlin in our GitHub repository: 

- Kotlin compiler 

- • Kotlin/Native 

- 

In particular, the Kotlin/Native compiler produces binaries that can include third-party code, data, or derived work. This means that the Kotlin/Native-compiled binaries are subject to the terms and conditions of the third-party licenses. 

In practice, if you distribute a Kotlin/Native-compiled final binary, you should always include necessary license files in your binary distribution. The files should be accessible to users of your distribution in a readable form. 

Always include the following license files for the corresponding projects: 

Project Files to be included Kotlin • Apache license 2.0 • Apache Harmony copyright notice Apache Harmony GWT Guava libbacktrace 3-clause BSD license with copyright notice mimalloc MIT license 

Include in case you use the mimalloc memory allocator instead of the default one (the `-Xallocator=mimalloc` compiler option is set). 

Unicode character database Unicode license 

708 

Project 

Files to be included 

Multi-producer/multi-consumer Copyright notice 

bounded queue 

The `mingwX64` target requires additional license files: 

Project Files to be included 

> MinGW-w64 headers and runtime libraries • MinGW-w64 runtime license 

• Winpthreads license 

None of these libraries require the distributed Kotlin/Native binaries to be open-sourced. 

## **Kotlin/Native FAQ** 

## **How do I run my program?** 

Define a top-level function `fun main(args: Array<String>)` or just `fun main()` if you are not interested in passed arguments, please ensure it's not in a package. Also, compiler switch `-entry` could be used to make any function taking `Array<String>` or no arguments and return `Unit` as an entry point. 

## **What is Kotlin/Native memory management model?** 

Kotlin/Native uses an automated memory management scheme that is similar to what Java or Swift provide. 

Learn about the Kotlin/Native memory manager 

## **How do I create a shared library?** 

Use the `-produce dynamic` compiler option or `binaries.sharedLib()` in your Gradle build file: 

```
kotlin {
iosArm64("mylib"){
        binaries.sharedLib()
}
}
```

It produces a platform-specific shared object ( `.so` on Linux, `.dylib` on macOS, and `.dll` on Windows targets) and a C language header, allowing the use of all public APIs available in your Kotlin/Native program from C/C++ code. 

## Complete the Kotlin/Native as a dynamic library tutorial 

## **How do I create a static library or an object file?** 

Use the `-produce static` compiler option or `binaries.staticLib()` in your Gradle build file: 

709 

```
kotlin {
iosArm64("mylib"){
        binaries.staticLib()
}
}
```

It produces a platform-specific static object ( `.a` library format) and a C language header, allowing you to use all the public APIs available in your Kotlin/Native program from C/C++ code. 

## **How do I run Kotlin/Native behind a corporate proxy?** 

As Kotlin/Native needs to download a platform specific toolchain, you need to specify `-Dhttp.proxyHost=xxx - Dhttp.proxyPort=xxx` as the compiler's or `gradlew` arguments, or set it via the `JAVA_OPTS` environment variable. 

## **How do I specify a custom Objective-C prefix/name for my Kotlin framework?** 

Use the `-module-name` compiler option or matching Gradle DSL statement. 

**Kotlin** 

```
kotlin {
iosArm64("myapp"){
        binaries.framework{
            freeCompilerArgs +=listOf("-module-name","TheName")
}
}
}
```

**Groovy** 

```
kotlin {
iosArm64("myapp"){
        binaries.framework {
            freeCompilerArgs +=["-module-name","TheName"]
}
}
}
```

## **How do I rename the iOS framework?** 

The default name is for an iOS framework is `<project name>.framework` . To set a custom name, use the `baseName` option. This will also set the module name. 

710 

```
kotlin {
iosArm64("myapp"){
       binaries {
          framework {
              baseName ="TheName"
}
}
}
}
```

## **How do I enable bitcode for my Kotlin framework?** 

Bitcode embedding was deprecated in Xcode 14 and removed in Xcode 15 for all Apple targets. The Kotlin/Native compiler does not support bitcode embedding since Kotlin 2.0.20. 

If you're using earlier versions of Xcode but want to upgrade to Kotlin 2.0.20 or later versions, disable bitcode embedding in your Xcode projects. 

## **How do I reference objects safely from different coroutines?** 

To safely access or update an object across multiple coroutines in Kotlin/Native, consider using concurrency-safe constructs, such as `@Volatile` and `AtomicReference` . 

Use `@Volatile` to annotate a `var` property. This makes all reads and writes to the property's backing field atomic. In addition, writes become immediately visible to other threads. When another thread accesses this property, it observes not only the updated value but also the changes that happened before the update. 

Alternatively, use AtomicReference, which supports atomic reads and updates. On Kotlin/Native, it wraps a volatile variable and performs atomic operations. Kotlin also provides a set of types for atomic operations tailored to specific data types. You can use `AtomicInt` , `AtomicLong` , `AtomicBoolean` , `AtomicArray` , as well as `AtomicIntArray` and `AtomicLongArray` . 

For more information about access to shared mutable state, see the Coroutines documentation. 

## **How can I compile my project with unreleased versions of Kotlin/Native?** 

First, please consider trying preview versions. 

In case you need an even more recent development version, you can build Kotlin/Native from source code: clone Kotlin repository and follow these steps. 

## **Kotlin for Android** 

Android mobile development has been Kotlin-first since Google I/O in 2019. 

Over 50% of professional Android developers use Kotlin as their primary language, while only 30% use Java as their main language. 70% of developers whose primary language is Kotlin say that Kotlin makes them more productive. 

Using Kotlin for Android development, you can benefit from: 

- **Less code combined with greater readability** . Spend less time writing your code and working to understand the code of others. 

- 

- **Fewer common errors** . Apps built with Kotlin are 20% less likely to crash based on Google's internal data. 

711 

- **Kotlin support in Jetpack libraries** . Jetpack Compose is Android's recommended modern toolkit for building native UI in Kotlin. KTX extensions add Kotlin language features, like coroutines, extension functions, lambdas, and named parameters to existing Android libraries. 

- **Support for multiplatform development** . Kotlin Multiplatform allows development for not only Android but also iOS, backend, and web applications. Some Jetpack libraries are already multiplatform. Compose Multiplatform, JetBrains' declarative UI framework based on Kotlin and Jetpack Compose, makes it possible to share UIs across platforms – iOS, Android, desktop, and web. 

- **Mature language and environment** . Since its creation in 2011, Kotlin has developed continuously, not only as a language but as a whole ecosystem with robust tooling. Now it's seamlessly integrated into Android Studio and is actively used by many companies for developing Android applications. 

- **Interoperability with Java** . You can use Kotlin along with the Java programming language in your applications without needing to migrate all your code to Kotlin. 

- 

   - **Easy learning** . Kotlin is very easy to learn, especially for Java developers. 

- **Big community** . Kotlin has great support and many contributions from the community, which is growing all over the world. Over 95% of the top thousand Android apps use Kotlin. 

Many startups and Fortune 500 companies have already developed Android applications using Kotlin, see the list on the Google website for Android developers. 

To start using Kotlin for: 

- Android development, read Google's documentation for developing Android apps with Kotlin. 

- 

- Developing cross-platform mobile applications, see Create an app with shared logic and native UI. 

## **Introduction to library authors' guidelines** 

This guide contains a summary of best practices and ideas to consider when designing libraries. 

To be effective, a library must achieve certain fundamental objectives. Specifically, it should: 

- Define its problem domain and implement a set of related functional requirements that solve the problems it defined. For example, an HTTP client may aim to support all HTTP request types and understand the various headers, content types, and status codes. 

- Meet the non-functional criteria appropriate to the problem domain. These typically involve performance, reliability, security, and usability. The relative importance of these criteria varies widely. For example, a library designed for batch processing may not require the same level of performance as one intended for day trading. 

The process of identifying and defining functional and non-functional requirements is a complex topic that has been extensively studied in software engineering. This guide does not cover these topics in depth, as they are beyond its scope. 

The main focus of this guide is to explore the characteristics that a library must have to stay relevant and popular with its users. These characteristics include: 

- **Minimize mental complexity:** All developers must consider the readability and maintainability of their code. It's crucial to reduce the mental effort required for others to read, understand, and use your APIs. Achieving this involves creating libraries that are clear, consistent, predictable, and easy to debug. 

- 

712 

**Backward compatibility:** When releasing a new version of an API, ensure the existing API remains operational. Clearly communicate and document any breaking changes well in advance. Provide a straightforward, clear, and gradual pathway for users to adopt the new API or design changes. 

- **Informative documentation:** The documentation that accompanies the library needs to do more than repeat function and type declarations. It should be comprehensive and specifically tailored to the library's audience. It should accurately reflect the needs and scenarios of various user roles, ensuring it provides essential information without being overly simplistic or complex. Always include clear examples, balancing explanatory text with practical code samples. 

Additionally, **building your Kotlin library with multiplatform support** can broaden its applicability across projects targeting various environments. Designing APIs to work reliably in both shared and platform-specific code can improve the library’s versatility and usability across all supported targets. 

The following sections dig deeper into these characteristics, with practical advice on how you can provide the best possible experience to users of your libraries. 

## **What's next** 

- Explore strategies for minimizing mental complexity in Minimizing mental complexity. 

- 

   - Learn about maintaining backward compatibility in Backward compatibility. 

- 

   - For an extensive overview on effective documentation practices, see Informative documentation. 

- 

- Discover best practices for building multiplatform libraries in Building Kotlin library for multiplatform. 

## **Minimizing mental complexity overview** 

Users need to quickly and accurately build a mental model of your library's functions and abstractions before using it. The best way to achieve this is by minimizing the amount of complexity they encounter. 

Strategies for minimizing mental complexity include: 

- **Simplicity:** Strive for an API that provides the most functionality with the fewest components, reusing existing Kotlin types and structures to avoid redundancy. Where possible, create a small set of core abstractions and build additional functionality on top of them. 

- **Readability:** Write the API in a declarative style to make the code's intent clear. Choose names for abstractions directly from the problem domain, unless it's absolutely necessary to invent new ones. Use basic data types for their intended purposes. Clearly distinguish between core and optional functionality. 

- **Consistency:** Maintain a single, clear approach for every design aspect of your API. Use uniform naming conventions, error handling strategies, and patterns, whether they are object-oriented or functional. 

- ‘ ' 

- • **Predictability:** Design your library to adhere to the principle of least surprise . Ensure the default settings match the most common use cases, allowing users to accomplish their tasks with the simplest and shortest code. Allow extensions to your library only in clearly specified ways to maintain consistency and predictability. 

- **Debuggability:** Ensure your library aids users in troubleshooting by facilitating the extraction of information and navigation through nested function calls. When exceptions are thrown, both the type and content of the exception should match the underlying issue, providing all necessary details to effectively diagnose and resolve problems. It should be possible to capture and output the state of domain objects, and to view any intermediate representations. 

- **Testability:** Ensure that your library, as well as the code that uses it, can be easily tested. 

713 

The following sections give more detailed information on implementing these strategies in Kotlin. 

## **Next step** 

To begin exploring these strategies in depth, you can start with learning about simplicity in the next section. 

## Proceed to the next part 

## **Simplicity** 

The fewer concepts your users need to understand and the more explicitly these are communicated, the simpler their mental model is likely to be. This can be achieved by limiting the number of operations and abstractions in the API. 

Ensure that the visibility of declarations in your library is set appropriately to keep internal implementation details out of the public API. Only APIs that are explicitly designed and documented for public use should be accessible to users. 

In the next part of the guide, we'll discuss some guidelines for promoting simplicity. 

## **Use explicit API mode** 

We recommend using the explicit API mode feature of the Kotlin compiler, which forces you to explicitly state your intentions when you're designing the API for your library. 

With explicit API mode, you must: 

- Add visibility modifiers to your declarations to make them public, instead of relying on the default public visibility. This ensures that you've considered what you're exposing as part of the public API. 

- Define the types for all your public functions and properties to prevent unintended changes to your API from inferred types. 

## **Reuse existing concepts** 

One way to limit the size of your API is to reuse existing types. For example, instead of creating a new type for durations, you can use `kotlin.time.Duration` . This approach not only streamlines development but also improves interoperability with other libraries. 

Be careful when relying on types from third-party libraries or platform-specific types, as they can tie your library to these elements. In such cases, the costs may outweigh the benefits. 

Reusing common types such as `String` , `Long` , `Pair` , and `Triple` can be effective, but this should not stop you from developing abstract data types if they better encapsulate domain-specific logic. 

## **Define and build on top of core API** 

Another route to simplicity is to define a small conceptual model based around a limited set of core operations. Once the behavior of these operations is clearly documented, you can expand the API by developing new operations that build directly on or combine these core functions. 

For example: 

714 

- In the Kotlin Flows API, common operations like `filter` and `map` are built on top of the `transform` operation. 

- In the Kotlin Time API the `measureTime` function utilizes `TimeSource.Monotonic` . 

While it's often beneficial to base additional operations on these core components, it's not always necessary. You may find opportunities to introduce optimized or platform-specific variations that expand the functionality or adapt more broadly to different inputs. 

As long as users are able to solve non-trivial problems with the core operations and can refactor their solutions with additional operations without altering any behavior, the simplicity of the conceptual model is preserved. 

## **Next step** 

In the next part of the guide, you'll learn about readability. 

## Proceed to the next part 

## **Readability** 

Creating a readable API involves more than just writing clean code. It requires thoughtful design that simplifies integration and usage. This section explores how you can enhance API readability by structuring your library with composability in mind, utilizing domain-specific languages (DSLs) for concise and expressive setup, and using extension functions and properties for clear and maintainable code. 

## **Prefer Explicit Composability** 

Libraries often provide advanced operators that allow for customization. For example, an operation might permit users to supply their own data structures, networking channels, timers, or lifecycle observers. However, introducing these customization options through additional function parameters can significantly increase the complexity of the API. 

Instead of adding more parameters for customization, it's more effective to design an API where different behaviors can be composed together. For example, in the coroutine Flows API both buffering and conflation are implemented as separate functions. These can be chained together with more basic operations like `filter` and `map` , instead of each basic operation accepting parameters to control buffering and conflation. 

Another example involves the Modifiers API in Jetpack Compose. This allows Composable components to accept a single `Modifier` parameter that handles common customization options, such as padding, sizing, and background color. This approach avoids the need for each Composable to accept separate parameters for these customizations, streamlining the API and reducing complexity. 

```
Box(
    modifier = Modifier
.padding(10.dp)
.onClick{println("Box clicked!")}
.fillMaxWidth()
.fillMaxHeight()
.verticalScroll(rememberScrollState())
.horizontalScroll(rememberScrollState())
){
```

```
// Box content goes here
}
```

715 

## **Use DSLs** 

A Kotlin library can significantly improve readability by providing a builder DSL. Using a DSL allows you to concisely repeat domain-specific data declarations. For example, consider the following sample from a Ktor-based server application: 

```
fun Application.module(){
install(ContentNegotiation){
json(Json {
            prettyPrint =true
            isLenient =true
})
}
    routing {
post("/article"){
            call.respond<String>(HttpStatusCode.Created,.)
}
get("/article/list"){
            call.respond<List<CreateArticle>(.)
}
get("/article/{id}"){
            call.respond<Article>(.)
}
}
}
```

This sets up an application, installing the `ContentNegotiation` plugin configured to use Json serialization, and sets up routing so that the application responds to requests on various `/article` endpoints. 

For a detailed description of creating DSLs, see Type-safe builders. The following points are worth noting in the context of creating libraries: 

- The functions used in the DSL are builder functions, which take a lambda with receiver as the final parameter. This design allows these functions to be called without parentheses, making the syntax clearer. The lambda being passed can be used to configure the entity being created. In the example above the lambda passed to the `routing` function is used to configure the details of the routing. 

- Factory functions that create instances of classes should have the same name as the return type and start with a capital letter. You can see this in the sample above with the creation of the `Json` instance. These functions may still take lambda parameters for configuration. For more information, see Coding conventions. 

- As it's not possible to ensure that required properties have been set within the lambda supplied to a builder function at compile time, we recommend passing required values as function parameters. 

Using DSLs to build objects not only improves readability but also improves backward compatibility, and simplifies the documentation process. For example, take the following function: 

## **`fun`** `Json(prettyPrint: Boolean, isLenient: Boolean): Json` 

This function could replace the `Json{}` DSL builder. However, the DSL approach has noticeable benefits: 

- Backward compatibility is easier to maintain with the DSL builder than with this function, as adding new configuration options simply means adding new properties (or in other examples, new functions), which is a backward-compatible change, unlike changing the parameter list of an existing function. 

- It also makes creating and maintaining documentation easier. You can document each property separately at its point of declaration, instead of having to document many parameters of a function, all in one place. 

716 

## **Use extension functions and properties** 

We recommend using extension functions and properties to improve readability. 

Classes and interfaces should define the core concept of a type. Additional functionality and information should be written as extension functions and properties. This makes it clear to the reader that the additional functionality can be implemented on top of the core concept, and additional information can be calculated from the data in the type. 

For example, the `CharSequence` type (which `String` also implements) only contains the most basic information and operators to access its contents: 

```
interface CharSequence {
val length: Int
operatorfunget(index: Int): Char
funsubSequence(startIndex: Int, endIndex: Int): CharSequence
}
```

Functionality commonly associated with strings is mostly defined as extension functions, which can all be implemented on top of the core concepts and basic APIs of the type: 

```
inlinefun CharSequence.isEmpty(): Boolean = length /=0
inlinefun CharSequence.isNotEmpty(): Boolean = length >0
inlinefun CharSequence.trimStart(predicate:(Char)/> Boolean): CharSequence {
for(index inthis.indices)
if(!predicate(this[index]))
returnsubSequence(index, length)
return""
}
```

Consider declaring computed properties and normal methods as extensions. Only regular properties, overrides, and overloaded operators should be declared as members by default. 

## **Avoid using the boolean type as an argument** 

Consider the following function: 

```
fundoWork(optimizeForSpeed: Boolean){.}
```

If you were to provide this function in your API it could be invoked as: 

```
doWork(true)
doWork(optimizeForSpeed=true)
```

In the first call it is impossible to infer what the boolean argument is for, unless you are reading the code in an IDE with Parameter Name Hints enabled. Using named arguments does clarify the intention, but there is no way to force your users to adopt this style. Consequently, to improve readability, your code should not use boolean types as arguments. 

Alternatively, the API could create a separate function specifically for the task controlled by the boolean argument. This function should have a descriptive name that indicates what it does. 

For example, the following extensions are available on the `Iterable` interface: 

717 

```
fun<T, R> Iterable<T>.map(transform:(T)/> R): List<R>
fun<T, R : Any> Iterable<T>.mapNotNull(
    transform:(T)/> R?
): List<R>
```

Instead of the single method: 

```
fun<T, R> Iterable<T>.map(
    includeNullResults: Boolean =true,
    transform:(T)/> R
): List<R>
```

Another good approach could be to use an `enum` class to define different operation modes. This approach is useful if there are several modes of operation, or if you expect these modes to change over time. 

## **Use numeric types appropriately** 

Kotlin defines a set of numeric types that you may use as part of your API. Here's how to use them appropriately: 

- Use the `Int` , `Long` and `Double` types as arithmetic types. They represent values with which calculations are performed. 

- Avoid using arithmetic types for non-arithmetic entities. For example, if you represent an ID as a `Long` , your users might be tempted to compare IDs, on the assumption they are assigned in order. This could lead to unreliable or meaningless results, or create dependencies on implementations that could change without warning. A better strategy is to define a specialized class for the ID abstraction. You could use Inline value classes to build such abstractions without affecting performance. See the `Duration` class for an example. 

- The `Byte` , `Float` and `Short` types are memory layout types. They are used to restrict the amount of memory available for storing a value, such as in caches or when transmitting data over a network. These types should only be used when the underlying data reliably fits within that type, and calculations are not required. 

- The unsigned integer types `UByte` , `UShort` , `UInt` and `ULong` should be used to utilize the full range of positive values available in a given format. They are suitable for scenarios requiring values beyond the range of signed types or for interoperability with native libraries. However, avoid using them in situations where the domain only requires non-negative integers. 

## **Next step** 

In the next part of the guide, you'll learn about consistency. 

Proceed to the next part 

## **Consistency** 

Consistency is crucial in API design to ensure ease of use. By maintaining consistent parameter order, naming conventions, and error handling mechanisms, your library will be more intuitive and reliable for users. Following these best practices helps avoid confusion and misuse, leading to a better developer experience and more robust applications. 

718 

## **Preserve parameter order, naming and usage** 

When designing a library, maintain consistency in the ordering of arguments, the naming scheme, and the use of overloading. For example, if one of your existing methods has `offset` and `length` parameters, you should not switch to alternatives like `startIndex` and `endIndex` for a new method unless there is a compelling reason. 

Overloaded functions provided by the library should behave identically. Users expect the behavior to remain consistent when they change the type of a value they pass into your library. For example, these calls all create identical instances, as the input is semantically the same: 

```
BigDecimal(200)
BigDecimal(200L)
BigDecimal("200")
```

Avoid mixing parameter names like `startIndex` and `stopIndex` with synonyms like `beginIndex` and `endIndex` . Similarly, choose one term for values in collections, such as `element` , `item` , `entry` , or `entity` , and stick with it. 

Name related methods consistently and predictably. As an example, the Kotlin standard library contains pairs like `first` and `firstOrNull` , `single` or `singleOrNull` . These pairs clearly indicate that some might return `null` while others might throw an exception. Parameters should be declared from the general to the specific, so essential inputs appear first and optional inputs last. For example, in `CharSequence.findAnyOf` the `strings` collection goes first, followed by the `startIndex` , and finally the `ignoreCase` flag. 

Consider a library managing employee records, and provides the following API to search for employees: 

```
funfindStaffBySeniority(
    startIndex: Int,
    minYearsServiceExclusive: Int
): List<Employee>
funfindStaffByAge(
    minAgeInclusive: Int,
    startIndex: Int
): List<Employee>
```

This API would be extremely hard to use correctly. There are multiple parameters of the same type presented in an inconsistent order, and used in an inconsistent way. Users of your library will likely make incorrect assumptions about new functions based on their experience with existing ones. 

## **Use Object-Oriented design for data and state** 

Kotlin supports both the Object-Oriented and Functional programming styles. Use classes to represent data and state in your API. When the data and state is hierarchical, consider using inheritance. 

If all the state required can be passed as parameters, prefer using top-level functions. When calls to these functions will be chained, consider writing them as extension functions to improve readability. 

## **Choose the appropriate error handling mechanism** 

Kotlin provides several mechanisms for error handling. Your API can throw an exception, return a `null` value, use a custom result type, or use the built-in `Result` type. Ensure that your library uses these options consistently and appropriately. 

719 

When data cannot be fetched or calculated, use a nullable return type and return `null` to indicate missing data. In other cases, throw an exception or return a `Result` type. 

Consider providing overloads of functions, where one throws an exception, while the other wraps it in a result type instead. In these cases, use the `Catching` suffix to indicate that exceptions are caught in the function. For example, the standard library has the `run` and `runCatching` functions using this convention, and the coroutines library has `receive` and `receiveCatching` methods for channels. 

Avoid using exceptions for normal control flow. Design your API to allow for condition checks before attempting operations, thus preventing unnecessary error handling. Command / Query Separation is a useful pattern that can be applied here. 

## **Maintain conventions and quality** 

The final aspect of consistency relates, not to the design of the library itself, but to maintaining a high level of quality. 

You should use automated tools (linters) for static analysis to ensure your code follows both general Kotlin conventions and project-specific conventions. 

A Kotlin library should also provide a suite of unit and integration tests covering all documented behaviors of all the API entry points. Tests should include a wide range of inputs, especially known boundary and edge cases. Any untested behavior should be assumed to be (at best) unreliable. 

Use this suite of tests during development to verify that changes do not break existing behavior. Run these tests on every release as part of a standardized build and release pipeline. Tools like Kover can be integrated into your build process to measure coverage and generate reports. 

## **Next step** 

In the next part of the guide, you'll learn about predictability. 

Proceed to the next part 

## **Predictability** 

To design a robust and user-friendly Kotlin library, it's essential to anticipate common use cases, allow for extensibility, and enforce proper usage. Following best practices for default settings, error handling, and state management ensures a seamless experience for users while maintaining the integrity and quality of the library. 

## **Do the right thing by default** 

Your library should anticipate the "happy path" for each use case, and provide default settings accordingly. Users should not need to supply default values for the library to function correctly. 

For example, when using the Ktor `HttpClient` the most common use case is sending a GET request to the server. This can be accomplished using the code below, where only essential information needs to be specified: 

```
val client =HttpClient(CIO)
val response: HttpResponse = client.get("https://ktor.io/")
```

720 

It's not necessary to provide values for mandatory HTTP headers or custom event handlers for possible status codes in the response. 

If there is no obvious "happy path" for a use case or if a parameter should have a default value but there is no noncontentious option, it likely indicates a flaw in the requirement analysis. 

## **Allow opportunities for extension** 

When the correct choice cannot be anticipated, allow users to specify their preferred approach. Your library should also let the user supply their own approach or use a third-party extension. 

For example, with the Ktor `HttpClient` , users are encouraged to install support for content negotiation when configuring the client, and to specify their preferred serialization formats: 

```
val client =HttpClient(CIO){
install(ContentNegotiation){
json(Json {
            prettyPrint =true
            isLenient =true
})
}
}
```

Users can choose which plugins to install or create their own using the separate API for defining client plugins. 

Additionally, users can define extension functions and properties for types in the library. As a library author, you can make this easier by designing with extensions in mind, and ensuring your library's types have clear core concepts. 

## **Prevent unwanted and invalid extensions** 

Users should not be able to extend your library in ways that violate its original design or are impossible within the rules of the problem domain. 

For example, when marshaling data to and from JSON, only six types are supported in the output format: `object` , `array` , `number` , `string` , `boolean` , and `null` . 

If you create an open class or interface called `JsonElement` , users could create invalid derived types, like `JsonDate` . Instead, you can make the `JsonElement` interface sealed and provide an implementation for each type: 

```
sealedinterface JsonElement
classJsonNumber(val value: Number): JsonElement
classJsonObject(val values: Map<String, JsonElement>): JsonElement
classJsonArray(val values: List<JsonElement>): JsonElement
classJsonBoolean(val value: Boolean): JsonElement
classJsonString(val value: String): JsonElement
object JsonNull : JsonElement
```

Sealed types also enable the compiler to ensure your `when` expressions are exhaustive, without requiring an `else` statement, improving readability and consistency. 

721 

## **Avoid exposing mutable state** 

When managing multiple values, your API should, whenever possible, accept and/or return read-only collections. Mutable collections are not thread-safe and introduce complexity and unpredictability into your library. 

For example, if a user modifies a mutable collection returned from an API entry point, it will be unclear whether they are modifying the implementation's structure or a copy. Similarly, if users can modify the values within a collection after passing it to a library, it will be unclear whether this affects the implementation. 

Since arrays are mutable collections, avoid using them in your API. If arrays must be used, make defensive copies before sharing data with users. This ensures your data structures remain unmodified. 

This policy of making defensive copies is automatically performed by the compiler for `vararg` arguments. When using the spread operator to pass an existing array where a `vararg` argument is expected, a copy of your array is automatically created. 

This behavior is demonstrated in the following example: 

```
funmain(){
fundemo(vararg input: String): Array<out String>= input
val originalArray =arrayOf("one","two","three","four")
val newArray =demo(*originalArray)
```

```
    originalArray[1]="ten"
```

```
//prints "one, ten, three, four"
println(originalArray.joinToString())
```

```
//prints "one, two, three, four"
println(newArray.joinToString())
}
```

## **Validate inputs and state** 

Ensure that your library is used correctly by validating inputs and existing state before implementation proceeds. Use the `require` function to verify inputs and the `check` function to validate existing state. 

The `require` function throws an `IllegalArgumentException` if its condition is `false` , causing the function to fail immediately with an appropriate error message: 

```
funsaveUser(username: String, password: String){
require(username.isNotBlank()){"Username should not be blank"}
require(username.all{ it.isLetterOrDigit()}){
```

```
"Username can only contain letters and digits, was: $username"
}
```

```
require(password.isNotBlank()){"Password should not be blank"}
require(password.length /=7){
```

```
"Password must contain at least 7 characters"
}
```

```
/* Implementation can proceed //
}
```

Error messages should include relevant inputs to help users determine the cause of the failure, as shown above by the error message for usernames that contain invalid characters, which includes the incorrect username. An exception to this practice is when including a value in the error message could reveal information that might be 

722 

used maliciously as part of a security exploit, which is why the error message for the password's length does not include the password input. 

Similarly, the `check` function throws an `IllegalStateException` if its condition is `false` . Use this function to verify the state of an instance, as shown in the example below: 

```
class ShoppingCart {
privateval contents = mutableListOf<Item>()
funaddItem(item: Item){
       contents.add(item)
}
funpurchase(): Amount {
check(contents.isNotEmpty()){
"Cannot purchase an empty cart"
}
// Calculate and return amount
}
}
```

## **Next step** 

In the next part of the guide, you'll learn about debuggability. 

Proceed to the next part 

## **Debuggability** 

Users of your library will build on its functionality, and the features they build will contain errors that need to be identified and resolved. This error resolution process might be conducted within a debugger during development or using logging and observability tools in production. Your library can follow these best practices to make debugging it easier. 

## **Provide a toString method for stateful types** 

For every type that contains state, provide a meaningful `toString` implementation. This implementation should return an intelligible representation of the instance's current content, even for internal types. 

Since `toString` representations of types are often written to logs, consider security when implementing this method and avoid returning sensitive user data. 

Ensure the format used to describe the state is as consistent as possible across the different types in your library. This format should be explicitly described and thoroughly documented when it is part of a contract implemented by your API. The output from your `toString` methods may support parsing, for example in automated test suites. 

For example, consider the following types from a library supporting service subscriptions: 

723 

```
enumclass SubscriptionResultReason {
    Success, InsufficientFunds, IncompatibleAccount
}
classSubscriptionResult(
val result: Boolean,
val reason: SubscriptionResultReason,
val description: String
)
```

Without a `toString` method, printing a `SubscriptionResult` instance is not very useful: 

```
funmain(){
val result =SubscriptionResult(
false,
       IncompatibleAccount,
"Users account does not support this type of subscription"
)
//prints 'org.example.SubscriptionResult@13221655'
println(result)
}
```

Nor is the information readily displayed in the debugger: 

**==> picture [376 x 18] intentionally omitted <==**

Adding a simple `toString` implementation improves the output significantly in both cases: 

```
//prints 'Subscription failed (reason=IncompatibleAccount, description="Users
// account does not support this type of subscription")'
overridefuntoString(): String {
val resultText =if(result)"succeeded"else"failed"
return"Subscription $resultText (reason=$reason, description=\"$description\")"
}
```

**==> picture [525 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

While it might be tempting to use data classes to gain a `toString` method automatically, it's not recommended for backward compatibility reasons. Data classes are discussed in more detail in the Avoid using data classes in your API section. 

Note that the state described in the `toString` method does not need to be information from the problem domain. It can relate to the status of ongoing requests (as in the example above), the health of connections to external services, or intermediate state within an ongoing operation. 

For example, consider the following builder type: 

724 

```
classPerson(
val name: String?,
val age: Int?,
val children: List<Person>
){
overridefuntoString(): String =
"Person(name=$name, age=$age, children=$children)"
}
class PersonBuilder {
var name: String?=null
var age: Int?=null
val children = arrayListOf<Person>()
funchild(personBuilder: PersonBuilder.()/> Unit ={}){
       children.add(person(personBuilder))
}
funbuild(): Person =Person(name, age, children)
}
funperson(personBuilder: PersonBuilder.()/> Unit ={}): Person =
PersonBuilder().apply(personBuilder).build()
```

This is how you would use this type: 

**==> picture [375 x 181] intentionally omitted <==**

Using the builder type example 

If you halt the code at the breakpoint displayed on the image above, the information displayed will not be helpful: 

**==> picture [376 x 24] intentionally omitted <==**

Adding a simple `toString` implementation results in a much more helpful output: 

```
overridefuntoString(): String =
"PersonBuilder(name=$name, age=$age, children=$children)"
```

With this addition, the debugger shows: 

**==> picture [525 x 16] intentionally omitted <==**

This way, you can immediately see which fields are set and which are not. 

725 

## **Adopt and document a policy for handling exceptions** 

As discussed in the Choose appropriate error handling mechanism section, there are occasions when it's appropriate for your library to throw an exception to signal an error. You may create your own exception types for this purpose. 

Libraries that abstract and simplify low-level APIs will also need to handle exceptions thrown by their dependencies. A library might choose to suppress the exception, pass it on as it is, convert it to a different type of an exception, or signal the error to users in a different way. 

Any of these options could be valid, depending on the context. For example: 

- If a user adopts library A purely for the convenience of simplifying library B, it may be appropriate for library A to rethrow any exceptions generated by library B without modification. 

- If library A adopts library B purely as an internal implementation detail, then library-specific exceptions thrown by library B should never be exposed to users of library A. 

You must adopt and document a consistent approach to exception handling so users can make productive use of your library. This is especially important for debugging. Users of your library should be able to recognise, in the debugger and in logs, when an exception has originated from your library. 

The type of the exception should indicate the type of the error, and the data in the exception should help the user locate the root cause of the issue. A common pattern is to wrap a low-level exception in a library-specific one, with the original exception accessible as the `cause` . 

## **Next step** 

In the next part of the guide, you'll learn about testability. 

## Proceed to the next part 

## **Testability** 

In addition to testing your library, ensure that code using your library is also testable. 

## **Avoid global state and stateful top-level functions** 

Your library should not rely on state in global variables or provide stateful top-level functions as part of its public API. Such variables and functions make testing code that uses the library difficult, as tests need to find ways to control these global values. 

For example, a library might define a globally accessible function that provides access to the current time: 

```
val instant: Instant = Clock.now()
println(instant)
```

Any code using this API will be difficult to test, as the call to the `now()` function will always return the real current time, while in tests it's often desirable to return fake values instead. 

To enable testability, the `kotlinx-datetime` library has an API that lets users get a `Clock` instance, and then use that to get the current time: 

726 

```
val clock: Clock = Clock.System
val instant: Instant = clock.now()
println(instant)
```

This allows users of a library to inject a `Clock` instance into their own classes, and replace the real implementation with a fake one during tests. 

## **What's next** 

If you haven't already, consider checking out these pages: 

- Learn about maintaining backward compatibility in the Backward compatibility page. 

- 

- For an extensive overview on effective documentation practices, see Informative Documentation. 

## **Backward compatibility guidelines for library authors** 

The most common motivation for creating a library is to expose functionality to a wider community. This community might be a single team, a company, a particular industry, or a technology platform. In every case backward compatibility will be an important consideration. The wider the community the more important backward compatibility becomes, since you will be less aware of who your users are and what constraints they work within. 

Backward compatibility is not a single term, but can be defined at the binary, source and behavioral levels. More information about these types is provided in this section. 

Note that: 

- It is possible to break binary compatibility without breaking source compatibility, as well as the other way around. 

- It is desirable but very difficult to guarantee source compatibility. As a library author, you must consider every possible way a function or type could be invoked or instantiated by a user of the library. Source compatibility is typically an aspiration, not a promise. 

The rest of this section describes actions you can take, and tools you can use to help ensure the different kinds of compatibility. 

## **Compatibility types** 

**Binary compatibility** means that a new version of a library can replace a previously compiled version of the library. Any software that was compiled against the previous version of the library should continue to work correctly. 

- Learn more about binary compatibility in the Binary compatibility validator's README or from the Evolving Java-based APIs document. 

**Source compatibility** means that a new version of a library can replace a previous one without modifying any of the source code that uses the library. However, the outputs from compiling this client code may no longer be compatible with the outputs from compiling the library, so the client code must be rebuilt against the new version of the library to guarantee compatibility. 

727 

**Behavioral compatibility** means that a new version of the library does not modify the existing functionality, except to fix bugs. The same features are involved and they have the same semantics. 

## **Use the Binary compatibility validator** 

JetBrains provides a Binary compatibility validator tool, which can be used to ensure binary compatibility across different versions of your API. 

This tool is implemented as a Gradle plugin, and it adds two tasks to your build: 

- The `apiDump` task creates a human-readable `.api` file that describes your API. 

- The `apiCheck` task compares the saved description of the API to classes compiled in the current build. 

The `apiCheck` task is invoked at build time by the standard Gradle `check` task. When compatibility is broken, the build fails. At that point, you should run the `apiDump` task manually and compare the differences between the old and new versions. If you are satisfied with the changes, you can update the existing `.api` file, which resides within your VCS. 

The validator has experimental support for validating KLibs produced by multiplatform libraries. 

Experimental 

## **Binary compatibility validation in the Kotlin Gradle plugin** 

Starting with version 2.2.0, the Kotlin Gradle plugin supports binary compatibility validation. For more information, see Binary compatibility validation in the Kotlin Gradle plugin. 

## **Specify return types explicitly** 

As discussed in the Kotlin coding guidelines, you should always explicitly specify function return types and property types within the API. See also the section about Explicit API mode. 

Consider the following example, where the library author creates a `JsonDeserializer` and, for convenience, uses an extension function to associate it with the `Int` type: 

```
class JsonDeserializer<T>(privateval fromJson:(String)/> T){
fundeserialize(input: String): T {
.
}
}
fun Int.defaultDeserializer()= JsonDeserializer {.}
```

Let's say the author replaces this implementation with a `JsonOrXmlDeserializer` : 

```
class JsonOrXmlDeserializer<T>(
privateval fromJson:(String)/> T,
privateval fromXML:(String)/> T
){
fundeserialize(input: String): T {
.
}
}
fun Int.defaultDeserializer()=JsonOrXmlDeserializer({.},{.})
```

728 

Existing functionality will continue to work, with the added ability to deserialize XML. However, this breaks binary compatibility. 

## **Avoid adding arguments to existing API functions** 

Adding non-default arguments to a public API breaks both binary and source compatibility, as users are required to provide more information on an invocation than before. However, even adding default arguments can break compatibility. 

For example, imagine you have the following function in `lib.kt` : 

```
funfib()= … // Returns zero
```

And the following function in `client.kt` : 

```
funmain(){
println(fib())// Prints zero
}
```

Compiling these two files on the JVM would produce the outputs `LibKt.class` and `ClientKt.class` . 

Let's say you reimplement and compile the `fib` function to represent the Fibonacci sequence, such that `fib(3)` returns 2, `fib(4)` returns 3, and so on. You add a parameter but give it a default value of zero to preserve the existing behavior: 

```
funfib(input: Int =0)= … // Returns Fibonacci member
```

You now need to recompile the file `lib.kt` . You might expect that the `client.kt` file does not need to be recompiled, and the associated class file can be invoked as follows: 

## `$ kotlin ClientKt.class` 

But if you try this, a `NoSuchMethodError` occurs: 

```
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoSuchMethodError: 'int LibKt.fib()'
       at LibKt.main(fib.kt:2)
       at LibKt.main(fib.kt)
       …
```

This is because the signature of the method changed in the bytecode generated by the Kotlin/JVM compiler, breaking binary compatibility. 

Source compatibility, however, is preserved. If you recompile both files, the program will run as before. 

## **Use overloads to preserve binary compatibility** 

When adding optional parameters to published APIs, you can use the Experimental `@IntroducedAt` annotation to preserve binary compatibility. 

Add the annotation to each new optional parameter with the version in which it was introduced. For example: 

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalVersionOverloading/:class)
funfib(@IntroducedAt("1.1") input: Int =0)= …
```

The compiler uses this information to generate the corresponding hidden overloads. 

729 

When writing Kotlin code for the JVM, you can also use the `@JvmOverloads` annotation on functions with default arguments to generate overloads. 

The `@JvmOverloads` annotation doesn't preserve binary compatibility for Kotlin callers. Instead, use the `@IntroducedAt` annotation or add manual overloads when changing published APIs. 

You can also create overloads manually instead of using a single function with default arguments. For example, if you want the `fib()` function to accept an `Int` parameter, create a separate overload: 

```
funfib()= …
funfib(input: Int)= …
```

## **Avoid widening or narrowing return types** 

When evolving an API, it is common to want to widen or narrow the return type of a function. For example, in an upcoming version of your API, you might want to switch a return type from `List` to `Collection` or from `Collection` to `List` . 

You might want to narrow the type to `List` to meet user requests for indexing support. Conversely, you might want to widen the type to `Collection` because you realize the data you are working with has no natural order. 

It is easy to see why widening a return type breaks compatibility. For example, converting from `List` to `Collection` breaks all the code that uses indexing. 

You might think that narrowing a return type, for example from `Collection` to `List` would preserve compatibility. Unfortunately, while source compatibility is preserved, binary compatibility is broken. 

Let's say you have a demo function in the file `Library.kt` : 

```
publicfundemo(): Number =3
```

And a client for the function in `Client.kt` : 

```
funmain(){
println(demo())// Prints 3
}
```

Let's imagine a scenario where you change the return type of demo and only recompile `Library.kt` : 

```
fundemo(): Int =3
```

When you rerun the client, the following error will occur (on the JVM): 

```
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoSuchMethodError: 'java.lang.Number Library.demo()'
        at ClientKt.main(call.kt:2)
        at ClientKt.main(call.kt)
        …
```

This happens because of the following instruction in the bytecode generated from the `main` method: 

```
0: invokestatic  #12 // Method Library.demo:()Ljava/lang/Number;
```

730 

The JVM is trying to invoke a static method called demo which returns a `Number` . However, as this method no longer exists, you have broken binary compatibility. 

## **Avoid using data classes in your API** 

In regular development, the strength of data classes is the extra functions that are generated for you. In API design, this strength becomes a weakness. 

For example, let's say you use the following data class in your API: 

```
dataclassUser(
val name: String,
val email: String
)
```

Later, you might want to add a property called `active` : 

```
dataclassUser(
val name: String,
val email: String,
val active: Boolean =true
)
```

This would break binary compatibility in two ways. Firstly, the generated constructor will have a different signature. Additionally, the signature of the generated `copy` method changes. 

The original signature (on Kotlin/JVM) would be: 

```
public final User copy(java.lang.String, java.lang.String)
```

After adding the `active` property, the signature becomes: 

```
public final User copy(java.lang.String, java.lang.String, boolean)
```

As with the constructor, this breaks binary compatibility. 

It's possible to work around these issues by manually writing a secondary constructor and overriding the `copy` method. However, the effort involved negates the convenience of using a data class. 

Another issue with data classes is that changing the order of constructor arguments affects the generated `componentX` methods, which are used for destructuring. Even if it does not break binary compatibility, changing the order will definitely break behavioral compatibility. 

## **Considerations for using the PublishedApi annotation** 

Kotlin allows inline functions to be a part of your library's API. Calls to these functions will be inlined into the client code written by your users. This can introduce compatibility issues, so these functions are not allowed to call nonpublic-API declarations. 

If you need to call an internal API of your library from an inlined public function, you can do so by annotating it with `@PublishedApi` . This makes the internal declaration effectively public, as references to it will end up in compiled client code. Therefore, it must be treated the same as public declarations when making changes to it, as these changes might affect binary compatibility. 

731 

## **Evolve APIs pragmatically** 

There are cases where you need to make breaking changes to your library's API over time by removing or changing an existing declaration. In this section, we'll discuss how to handle such cases pragmatically. 

When users upgrade to a newer version of your library, they should not end up with unresolved references to your library's APIs in their project's source code. Instead of immediately removing something from your library's public API, you should follow a deprecation cycle. This way, you give your users time to migrate to an alternative. 

Use the `@Deprecated` annotation on the old declaration to indicate that it's being replaced. The parameters of this annotation provide important details about the deprecation: 

- 

   - The `message` should explain what's being changed and why. 

- 

   - The `replaceWith` parameter should be used where possible to provide automatic migration to a new API. 

- The deprecation's level should be used to deprecate the API gradually. For more information, see the Deprecated page of the Kotlin documentation. 

Generally, a deprecation should first produce a warning, then an error, and then hide the declaration. This process should occur across several minor releases, giving users time to make any required changes in their projects. Breaking changes, such as removing an API, should happen only in major releases. A library may adopt different versioning and deprecation strategies, but this must be communicated to its users to set the correct expectations. 

You can learn more in the Kotlin Evolution principles document or in the Evolving your Kotlin API painlessly for clients talk by Leonid Startsev from KotlinConf 2023. 

## **Use the RequiresOptIn mechanism** 

The Kotlin standard library provides the opt-in mechanism to require explicit consent from users before they use a part of your API. This is based on creating marker annotations, which are themselves annotated with 

`@RequiresOptIn` . You should use this mechanism to manage expectations concerning source and behavioral compatibility, especially when introducing new APIs to your library. 

If you choose to use this mechanism, we recommend following these best practices: 

- Use the opt-in mechanism to provide different guarantees to different parts of the API. For example, you could mark features as Preview, Experimental, and Delicate. Each category should be clearly explained in your documentation and in KDoc comments, with appropriate warning messages. 

- If your library uses an experimental API, propagate the annotation to your own users. This ensures your users are aware that you have dependencies which are still evolving. 

- Avoid using the opt-in mechanism to deprecate already existing declarations in your library. Use `@Deprecated` instead, as described in the Evolve APIs pragmatically section. 

## **What's next** 

If you haven't already, consider checking out these pages: 

- 

   - Explore strategies for minimizing mental complexity in the Minimizing mental complexity page. 

- 

- For an extensive overview on effective documentation practices, see Informative documentation. 

732 

## **Best practices for library authors to create informative documentation** 

The documentation you provide for your library is crucial. It can determine whether users investigate your library, adopt it within their projects, and persevere when they encounter difficulties. Developers today have unprecedented choice between languages, libraries, frameworks and platforms. Therefore, it is essential to engage and inform your users; otherwise they may pursue other options. 

In the earliest versions of your library, feedback from users will be scarce. Fortunately, creating and refining documentation can serve as a feedback loop to greatly increase the quality of your project. As such, creating documentation should never be seen as a burden, and should not be pushed down the list of priorities when creating a library. 

Effective documentation not only informs users but also drives the development and refinement of your library. Here are several key ways documentation can guide your development process: 

- You should be able to explain, in a couple of paragraphs, what your library does, who will benefit from using it, and what the advantages are over alternative approaches. If you cannot do this, reconsider the scope and objectives of your project. 

- You should be able to create a "Getting Started" guide that can get a potential user up and running as quickly as possible. What counts as quickly will depend on the problem domain, but you can compare against similar libraries on other platforms. The guide should hook the user into a feedback loop that keeps getting easier and faster while always producing reliable results. Creating this guide will help you identify sudden increases in complexity (cliff edges) that could hinder the user's progress. 

- The act of documenting a function forces you to consider all the edge cases, such as valid ranges of inputs, exceptions that might be thrown, and how performance degrades as the work increases. This can often lead to improvements in the function signatures and the underlying implementation. 

- If the code required to initialize your library always eclipses the code required to accomplish a task, rethink your configuration options. 

- If you cannot create clear examples of performing basic tasks with standard options, consider optimizing your API for day-to-day use. 

- If you cannot demonstrate how to test your library without using real data sources and online services, consider providing test doubles for components that access the network (and the outside world in general). 

The sooner you provide documentation for your library, the sooner it can be tested by real-world users. Feedback from these tests can then be used to improve the design. 

## **Provide comprehensive documentation** 

Your library must provide sufficient documentation to let users adopt it with minimum effort. This documentation should include: 

- A Getting Started guide 

- An in-depth description of the API 

- Longer examples for common use cases (also known as recipes) 

- Links to resources such as blogs, articles, webinars, and conference talks 

733 

The Getting Started guide should cover how your library integrates with the supported build systems. It should include a brief description of the most commonly used entities, with small examples of how they are used. At each point where the library interacts with the outside world, specify the necessary steps to configure the environment and how to verify that these steps have been completed successfully. State explicitly if no steps are necessary. 

If possible, provide separate versions of the documentation for each version of the library you support. This prevents users from viewing information that is either outdated or too recent. When this is not possible, clearly mark sections of the documentation that relate to parts of the API that have been redesigned. 

## **Create personas for your users** 

Creating and evaluating documentation without a clear understanding of the intended audience is challenging. Defining multiple personas for the types of users who will read your documentation can be helpful. 

Consider the user's constraints, such as the pre-existing software stack within which they need to operate. Reviewers of the documentation can adopt these personas to make their conclusions more meaningful. 

When you lack specific information about your users, it's best to be pessimistic. For example, do not assume expertise in the latest or most advanced features of Kotlin. Keep your code examples as simple as possible. 

Personas are especially useful when real-world users cannot be consulted due to time, budgetary constraints, or confidentiality agreements. Over time, as you gain a better understanding of your users, refine the personas to match their needs more accurately. 

## **Document by example whenever possible** 

Documentation by example is one of the most cost-effective ways to explain basic concepts to users. Whenever possible, provide simple and clear code examples that help to explain or demonstrate the current topic or concept being discussed. 

The KDoc documentation format lets you use inline markup using Markdown in your documentation comments. Use inline code snippets in comments to showcase the usage of an API. For an example, see the source code and rendered documentation of the test dispatchers of the coroutines library. 

Providing examples like this can avoid the need to write lengthy descriptions of expected inputs, possible outputs, and failure modes. However, the context for each example needs to be clear, as do the circumstances in which it is relevant. Simply providing a folder of uncommented sample programs does not qualify as documentation. 

## **Thoroughly document your API** 

Every supported API entry point should be documented using KDoc. 

Kotlin's documentation engine, Dokka, includes only public declarations in its outputs by default. As discussed in the Simplicity section, you should minimize your public API and remove public entry points that you don't want users to access. If there are APIs you cannot hide from users by controlling their visibility, omit them from the documentation using the suppress directive. 

Begin the description of entry points with a clear, high-level description of what the function does. Avoid simply restating the signature in natural language. 

For example, don't say “takes a `String` and returns a `Connection` ” but instead perhaps “Attempts to connect to the database specified by the input string, returning a `Connection` if successful, and throwing a `ConnectionTimeoutException` otherwise”. 

734 

Specify each input's expected values and behavior with different inputs. Explain the range of valid values and what happens when invalid values are provided. For example, if a string input is supposed to be a URL, describe what happens when the string is empty, invalid, uses an unsupported protocol, or refers to a location that does not exist. 

Document every exception an API entry point may throw. Discuss failure conditions in the general description and reserve the exception section for detailed information. This enhances readability and helps the reader focus. Instead, include this information organically into the general description. Providing usage examples whenever possible also helps users understand how to use the API correctly. 

We recommend learning about technical writing to improve the clarity and effectiveness of your documentation. Consider exploring resources, such as this course from Google (part one and part two). 

## **Document lambda parameters** 

When an API entry point takes a lambda, the user is providing some functionality that your library will execute on their behalf. This requires extra documentation in at least two areas. 

First, document what happens if the lambda throws an exception. Consider addressing the following questions: 

- Will this cause an immediate failure, will the lambda be invoked repeatedly, or is there a fallback behavior? 

- If the calling function needs to exit, will it rethrow the exception thrown from the lambda or a different one? 

- If the exception is different, will it include the original? 

Additionally, unless the function is declared as inline,document any special behavior relating to concurrency. Ensure the following are covered: 

- Will the lambda be invoked in the same thread as the caller? 

- If the lambda is not invoked in the same thread as the caller, which thread (or thread pool) will it be invoked in? 

- Could multiple copies of the lambda be run in parallel? 

- Which other jobs of work may be using that thread? 

- Can the user specify a thread for the library to use? 

- Where multiple lambdas are being invoked, what guarantees are provided regarding sequencing? 

## **Use explicit links in documentation** 

It is very rare for an API entry point to be completely independent of other functionality in your library. Typically, calls must be made in a specific sequence, there are multiple options for performing a particular task, and entry points that perform related tasks are used in similar ways. For example, functions like `format` and `parse` mirror each other. 

Use the `@see` tag or internal links to make these relationships explicit in your documentation. This helps the reader by enabling them to chunk the information together, building a better-integrated mental map of the library. 

## **Be self-contained where possible** 

When describing what makes an input valid, it is tempting to simply refer to the relevant standard, such as those produced by the W3C, IEEE, or Unicode Consortium. While providing these links can be helpful, the reader should 

735 

not be forced to refer to an external specification to discover basic information, like the set of whitespace characters. 

Wherever possible, the documentation should be self-contained. It should provide enough information for the user to understand the typical use of each API entry point. You can refer the user to external documents for edge cases that will not happen in common use. 

## **Use simple English** 

It's important to use simple and clear English when creating documentation. This ensures that your content is accessible to a global audience, including those whose first language is not English. Avoid using complex words, jargon, Latin phrases, or idiomatic expressions that might confuse readers. Instead, use straightforward language and concise sentences. 

Simple English also makes the documentation easier to translate if needed. Clear, unambiguous text reduces the risk of misinterpretation and improves the overall readability. 

## **What's next** 

If you haven't already, consider checking out these pages: 

- Explore strategies for minimizing mental complexity in the Minimizing mental complexity page. 

- 

- Learn about maintaining backward compatibility in the Backward compatibility page. 

## **Building a Kotlin library for multiplatform** 

When creating a Kotlin library, consider building and publishing it with support for Kotlin Multiplatform. This broadens the target audience of your library, making it compatible with projects targeting multiple platforms. 

The following sections provide guidelines to help you build a Kotlin Multiplatform library effectively. 

## **Maximize your reach** 

To make your library available to the largest number of projects as a dependency, aim to support as many target platforms of Kotlin Multiplatform as possible. 

If your library doesn't support the platforms used by a multiplatform project, whether it's a library or an application, it becomes difficult for that project to depend on your library. In that case, projects can use your library for some platforms and need to implement separate solutions for others, or they will choose an alternative library altogether that supports all their platforms. 

To streamline artifact production, use cross-compilation to publish Kotlin Multiplatform libraries from any host. This allows you to generate `.klib` artifacts for Apple targets without an Apple machine. 

For Kotlin/Native targets, consider using a tiered approach to support all possible targets. 

## **Design APIs for use from common code** 

When creating a library, design the APIs to be usable from common Kotlin code, instead of writing platformspecific implementations. 

736 

Provide reasonable default configurations when possible and include platform-specific configuration options. Good defaults allow users to use the library's APIs from common Kotlin code, without the need to write platformspecific implementations to configure the library. 

Place APIs in the broadest relevant source set using the following priority: 

- **The** **`commonMain` source set:** APIs in the `commonMain` source set are available to all platforms the library supports. Aim to place most of your library's API here. 

- **Intermediate source sets:** If some platforms don't support certain APIs, use intermediate source sets to target specific platforms. For example, you can create a `concurrent` source set for targets that support multithreading or a `nonJvm` source set for all non-JVM targets. 

- **Platform-specific source sets:** For platform-specific APIs, use source sets like `androidMain` . 

   - To learn more about the source sets of Kotlin Multiplatform projects, see Hierarchical project structure. 

## **Ensure consistent behavior across platforms** 

To ensure your library behaves consistently on all supported platforms, APIs in a multiplatform library should accept the same range of valid inputs, perform the same actions, and return the same results across all platforms. Similarly, the library should treat invalid inputs uniformly and report errors or throw exceptions consistently on all platforms. 

Inconsistent behavior makes the library difficult to use and forces users to add conditional logic in common code to manage platform-specific differences. 

You can use `expect` and `actual` declarations to declare functions in common code with platform-specific implementations that have full access to the native APIs of each platform. These implementations must also have the same behavior to ensure that they can be used reliably from common code. 

When APIs behave consistently across platforms, they only need to be documented once in the `commonMain` source set. 

If platform differences are unavoidable, such as when one platform supports a broader set of inputs, minimize them where possible. For example, you might not want to limit one platform's functionality to match the others. In such cases, clearly document the specific differences. 

## **Test on all platforms** 

Multiplatform libraries can have multiplatform tests written in common code that runs on all platforms. Executing this common test suite regularly on your supported platforms can ensure that the library behaves correctly and consistently. 

Regularly testing Kotlin/Native targets across all published platforms can be challenging. However, to ensure broader compatibility, consider publishing the library for all the targets it can support, using a tiered method when testing compatibility. 

Use the `kotlin-test` library to write tests in common code and execute them with platform-specific test runners. 

737 

## **Consider non-Kotlin users** 

Kotlin Multiplatform offers interoperability with native APIs and languages across its supported target platforms. When creating a Kotlin Multiplatform library, consider whether users might need to use your library's types and declarations from languages other than Kotlin. 

For example, if some types from your library will be exposed to Swift code through interoperability, design those types to be easily accessible from Swift. The Kotlin-Swift interopedia provides useful insights into how Kotlin APIs appear when called from Swift. 

## **Promote your library** 

Your library can be featured on the JetBrains' search platform. It's designed to make it easy to look for Kotlin Multiplatform libraries based on their target platforms. 

Libraries that meet the criteria are added automatically. For more information on how to add your library, see FAQ. 

## **Get started with Kotlin custom scripting – tutorial** 

Kotlin custom scripting is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Use it only for evaluation purposes. We appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

Kotlin scripting is the technology that enables executing Kotlin code as scripts without prior compilation or packaging into executables. 

For an overview of Kotlin scripting with examples, check out the talk Implementing the Gradle Kotlin DSL by Rodrigo Oliveira from KotlinConf'19. 

In this tutorial, you'll create a Kotlin scripting project that executes arbitrary Kotlin code with Maven dependencies. You'll be able to execute scripts like this: 

```
@file:Repository("https://maven.pkg.jetbrains.space/public/p/kotlinx-html/maven")
@file:DependsOn("org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-html-jvm:0.7.3")
```

```
import kotlinx.html.*
import kotlinx.html.stream.*
import kotlinx.html.attributes.*
```

```
val addressee ="World"
```

```
print(
createHTML().html{
        body {
            h1 {+"Hello, $addressee!"}
}
}
)
```

The specified Maven dependency ( `kotlinx-html-jvm` for this example) will be resolved from the specified Maven repository or local cache during execution and used for the rest of the script. 

738 

## **Project structure** 

A minimal Kotlin custom scripting project contains two parts: 

- Script definition – a set of parameters and configurations that define how this script type should be recognized, handled, compiled, and executed. 

- Scripting host – an application or component that handles script compilation and execution – actually running scripts of this type. 

With all of this in mind, it's best to split the project into two modules. 

## **Before you start** 

Download and install the latest version of Intelli IDEA. 

## **Create a project** 

1. In IntelliJ IDEA, select **File** | **New** | **Project** . 

2. In the panel on the left, select **New Project** . 

3. Name the new project and change its location if necessary. 

      - Select the **Create Git repository** checkbox to place the new project under version control. You will be able to do it later at any time. 

4. From the **Language** list, select **Kotlin** . 

5. Select the **Gradle** build system. 

6. From the **JDK** list, select the JDK that you want to use in your project. 

   - If the JDK is installed on your computer, but not defined in the IDE, select **Add JDK** and specify the path to the JDK home directory. 

   - 

   - If you don't have the necessary JDK on your computer, select **Download JDK** . 

7. Select the Kotlin or Gradle language for the **Gradle DSL** . 

8. Click **Create** . 

739 

**==> picture [524 x 428] intentionally omitted <==**

Create a root project for custom Kotlin scripting 

## **Add scripting modules** 

Now you have an empty Kotlin/JVM Gradle project. Add the required modules, script definition and scripting host: 

1. In IntelliJ IDEA, select **File | New | Module** . 

2. In the panel on the left, select **New Module** . This module will be the script definition. 

3. Name the new module and change its location if necessary. 

4. From the **Language** list, select **Java** . 

5. Select the **Gradle** build system and Kotlin for the **Gradle DSL** if you want to write the build script in Kotlin. 

6. As a module's parent, select the root module. 

7. Click **Create** . 

740 

**==> picture [511 x 399] intentionally omitted <==**

Create script definition module 

8. In the module's `build.gradle(.kts)` file, remove the `version` of the Kotlin Gradle plugin. It is already in the root project's build script. 

9. Repeat previous steps one more time to create a module for the scripting host. 

The project should have the following structure: 

741 

**==> picture [225 x 244] intentionally omitted <==**

Custom scripting project structure 

You can find an example of such a project and more Kotlin scripting examples in the kotlin-script-examples GitHub repository. 

## **Create a script definition** 

First, define the script type: what developers can write in scripts of this type and how it will be handled. In this tutorial, this includes support for the `@Repository` and `@DependsOn` annotations in the scripts. 

1. In the script definition module, add the dependencies on the Kotlin scripting components in the `dependencies` block of `build.gradle(.kts)` . These dependencies provide the APIs you will need for the 

script definition: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
dependencies {
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-common")
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-jvm")
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-dependencies")
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-dependencies-maven")
// coroutines dependency is required for this particular definition
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-coroutines-core:1.11.0")
}
```

742 

## **Groovy** 

```
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-common'
    implementation 'org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-jvm'
    implementation 'org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-dependencies'
    implementation 'org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-dependencies-maven'
// coroutines dependency is required for this particular definition
    implementation 'org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-coroutines-core:1.11.0'
}
```

2. Create the `src/main/kotlin/` directory in the module and add a Kotlin source file, for example, `scriptDef.kt` . 

3. In `scriptDef.kt` , create a class. It will be a superclass for scripts of this type, so declare it `abstract` or `open` . 

```
// abstract (or open) superclass for scripts of this type
abstractclass ScriptWithMavenDeps
```

This class will also serve as a reference to the script definition later. 

4. To make the class a script definition, mark it with the `@KotlinScript` annotation. Pass two parameters to the annotation: 

   - `fileExtension` – a string ending with `.kts` that defines a file extension for scripts of this type. 

   - `compilationConfiguration` – a Kotlin class that extends `ScriptCompilationConfiguration` and defines 

   - the compilation specifics for this script definition. You'll create it in the next step. 

```
// @KotlinScript annotation marks a script definition class
@KotlinScript(
// File extension for the script type
     fileExtension ="scriptwithdeps.kts",
// Compilation configuration for the script type
     compilationConfiguration = ScriptWithMavenDepsConfiguration/:class
)
abstractclass ScriptWithMavenDeps
object ScriptWithMavenDepsConfiguration:ScriptCompilationConfiguration()
```

In this tutorial, we provide only the working code without explaining Kotlin scripting API. You can find the same code with a detailed explanation on GitHub. 

5. Define the script compilation configuration as shown below. 

743 

```
object ScriptWithMavenDepsConfiguration :ScriptCompilationConfiguration(
{
// Implicit imports for all scripts of this type
defaultImports(DependsOn/:class, Repository/:class)
         jvm {
// Extract the whole classpath from context classloader and use it as dependencies
dependenciesFromCurrentContext(wholeClasspath =true)
}
// Callbacks
         refineConfiguration {
// Process specified annotations with the provided handler
onAnnotations(DependsOn/:class, Repository/:class, handler =
/:configureMavenDepsOnAnnotations)
}
}
)
```

The `configureMavenDepsOnAnnotations` function is as follows: 

```
// Handler that reconfigures the compilation on the fly
funconfigureMavenDepsOnAnnotations(context: ScriptConfigurationRefinementContext):
ResultWithDiagnostics<ScriptCompilationConfiguration>{
val annotations = context.collectedData.get(ScriptCollectedData.collectedAnnotations).takeIf
{ it.isNotEmpty()}
/:return context.compilationConfiguration.asSuccess()
return runBlocking {
         resolver.resolveFromScriptSourceAnnotations(annotations)
}.onSuccess{
         context.compilationConfiguration.with{
             dependencies.append(JvmDependency(it))
}.asSuccess()
}
}
```

```
privateval resolver =CompoundDependenciesResolver(FileSystemDependenciesResolver(),
MavenDependenciesResolver())
```

You can find the full code here. 

## **Create a scripting host** 

The next step is creating the scripting host – the component that handles the script execution. 

1. In the scripting host module, add the dependencies in the `dependencies` block of `build.gradle(.kts)` : 

   - 

   - Kotlin scripting components that provide the APIs you need for the scripting host 

- 

- The script definition module you created previously 

## **Kotlin** 

```
dependencies {
```

```
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-common")
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-jvm")
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-jvm-host")
implementation(project(":script-definition"))// the script definition module
}
```

744 

## **Groovy** 

```
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-common'
    implementation 'org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-jvm'
    implementation 'org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-jvm-host'
    implementation project(':script-definition')// the script definition module
}
```

2. Create the `src/main/kotlin/` directory in the module and add a Kotlin source file, for example, `host.kt` . 

3. Define the `main` function for the application. In its body, check that it has one argument – the path to the script file – and execute the script. You'll define the script execution in a separate function `evalFile` in the next step. Declare it empty for now. 

`main` can look like this: 

```
funmain(vararg args: String){
if(args.size /=1){
println("usage: <app> <script file>")
}else{
val scriptFile =File(args[0])
println("Executing script $scriptFile")
evalFile(scriptFile)
}
}
```

4. Define the script evaluation function. This is where you'll use the script definition. Obtain it by calling `createJvmCompilationConfigurationFromTemplate` with the script definition class as a type parameter. Then 

call `BasicJvmScriptingHost().eval` , passing it the script code and its compilation configuration. `eval` returns an instance of `ResultWithDiagnostics` , so set it as your function's return type. 

```
funevalFile(scriptFile: File): ResultWithDiagnostics<EvaluationResult>{
val compilationConfiguration =
createJvmCompilationConfigurationFromTemplate<ScriptWithMavenDeps>()
returnBasicJvmScriptingHost().eval(scriptFile.toScriptSource(), compilationConfiguration,
null)
}
```

5. Adjust the `main` function to print information about the script execution: 

```
funmain(vararg args: String){
if(args.size /=1){
println("usage: <app> <script file>")
}else{
val scriptFile =File(args[0])
println("Executing script $scriptFile")
val res =evalFile(scriptFile)
         res.reports.forEach{
if(it.severity > ScriptDiagnostic.Severity.DEBUG){
println(" : ${it.message}"+if(it.exception /=null)""else":
${it.exception}")
}
}
}
}
```

745 

You can find the full code here 

## **Run scripts** 

To check how your scripting host works, prepare a script to execute and a run configuration. 

1. Create the file `html.scriptwithdeps.kts` with the following content in the project root directory: 

```
@file:Repository("https://maven.pkg.jetbrains.space/public/p/kotlinx-html/maven")
@file:DependsOn("org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-html-jvm:0.7.3")
```

```
import kotlinx.html.*;import kotlinx.html.stream.*;import kotlinx.html.attributes.*
val addressee ="World"
print(
createHTML().html{
        body {
            h1 {+"Hello, $addressee!"}
}
}
)
```

It uses functions from the `kotlinx-html-jvm` library which is referenced in the `@DependsOn` annotation argument. 

2. Create a run configuration that starts the scripting host and executes this file: 

   1. Open `host.kt` and navigate to the `main` function. It has a **Run** gutter icon on the left. 

   2. Right-click the gutter icon and select **Modify Run Configuration** . 

   3. In the **Create Run Configuration** dialog, add the script file name to **Program arguments** and click **OK** . 

**==> picture [497 x 290] intentionally omitted <==**

Scripting host run configuration 

746 

## 3. Run the created configuration. 

You'll see how the script is executed, resolving the dependency on `kotlinx-html-jvm` in the specified repository and printing the results of calling its functions: 

```
<html>
  <body>
    <h1>Hello, World!//h1>
  //body>
//html>
```

Resolving dependencies may take some time on the first run. Subsequent runs will complete much faster because they use downloaded dependencies from the local Maven repository. 

## **What's next?** 

Once you've created a simple Kotlin scripting project, find more information on this topic: 

- Read the Kotlin scripting KEEP 

- 

   - Browse more Kotlin scripting examples 

- 

- Watch the talk Implementing the Gradle Kotlin DSL by Rodrigo Oliveira 

## **IDEs for Kotlin development** 

JetBrains provides official Kotlin support for the following IDEs and code editors: Intelli IDEA and Android Studio. You can also install the official Kotlin by JetBrains extension for Visual Studio Code, which is currently in Alpha. 

Other IDEs and code editors only have Kotlin community-supported plugins. 

## **IntelliJ IDEA** 

Intelli IDEA is an IDE designed for JVM languages, such as Kotlin and Java, to maximize developer productivity. It does the routine and repetitive tasks for you by providing clever code completion, static code analysis, and refactorings. It lets you focus on the bright side of software development, making it not only productive but also an enjoyable experience. 

The Kotlin plugin is bundled with each IntelliJ IDEA release. Each IDEA release introduces new features and upgrades that improve the experience for Kotlin developers in the IDE. See What's new in Intelli IDEA for the latest updates and improvements for Kotlin. 

Read more about IntelliJ IDEA in the official documentation. 

## **Android Studio** 

Android Studio is the official IDE for Android app development, based on Intelli IDEA. On top of IntelliJ's powerful code editor and developer tools, Android Studio offers even more features that enhance your productivity when building Android apps. 

Kotlin plugin is bundled with each Android Studio release. 

Read more about Android Studio in the official documentation. 

747 

## **Visual Studio Code** 

Visual Studio Code is a code editor with a wide range of extensions, including the official Kotlin by JetBrains extension. 

The Kotlin extension provides code completion, navigation, debugging, and other Kotlin development features through the Kotlin Language Server. 

For more information, see Kotlin Language Server and Visual Studio Code. 

## **Other IDEs support** 

JetBrains doesn't provide official Kotlin plugins for other IDEs. You can use the Kotlin Language Server with other code editors. 

To use Kotlin in text editors without IDE-related features (such as code formatting, debugging tools, refactoring), you can download the latest Kotlin command-line compiler ( `kotlin-compiler-2.4.0.zip` ) from Kotlin GitHub Releases and install it manually. Also, you could use package managers, such as Homebrew, SDKMAN!, and Snap package. 

## **Compatibility with the Kotlin language versions** 

For IntelliJ IDEA and Android Studio, the Kotlin plugin is bundled with each release. When the new Kotlin version is released, these tools will suggest updating Kotlin to the latest version automatically. See the latest supported language version in Kotlin releases. 

## **What's next?** 

- Create a console application in Intelli IDEA 

- Create your first cross-platform mobile app using Android Studio 

## **Kotlin Language Server** 

The Kotlin Language Server is JetBrains' official implementation of the Language Server Protocol (LSP) for Kotlin. The server is based on IntelliJ IDEA, the IntelliJ IDEA Kotlin plugin, JetBrains AIR, and Fleet. It is designed to work with any code editor that supports LSP. 

Intelli IDEA and Android Studio provide the best Kotlin development experience. 

## **Kotlin in Visual Studio Code** 

Kotlin Language Server provides official Kotlin language support for Visual Studio Code. 

If you use Visual Studio Code for Kotlin development, install the official Kotlin by JetBrains extension from the Visual Studio Marketplace. 

To activate the **Kotlin by JetBrains** extension, open a Kotlin project in Visual Studio Code, and then open any Kotlin file. 

748 

## **Supported features** 

The Kotlin Language Server includes core language features such as: 

- Support for up-to-date Kotlin language versions 

- IntelliJ-powered code completion 

- IntelliJ-powered diagnostics and quick fixes for Kotlin and `kotlinx.*` libraries 

- Build system support for JVM projects: Gradle, Maven, and experimental Android Gradle Plugin support 

Support for Kotlin Multiplatform projects is under development. 

- Semantic highlighting 

- Organize imports 

- Rename refactoring 

- Code formatting 

- Documentation navigation and hover support 

- Call hierarchy 

- Code folding 

## **Feedback** 

The Kotlin Language Server is under active development, and feedback is especially valuable during the Alpha stage. 

If you run into problems or want to suggest improvements, report them in the Kotlin LSP repository. 

## **What's next?** 

- Explore the Kotlin Language Server repository on GitHub 

## **Introduction** 

Dokka is an API documentation engine for Kotlin. 

Just like Kotlin itself, Dokka supports mixed-language projects. It understands Kotlin's KDoc comments and Java's Javadoc comments. 

Dokka can generate documentation in multiple formats, including its own modern HTML format, Java's Javadoc HTML, as well as the GFM and Jekyll flavors of Markdown. 

Here are some libraries that use Dokka for their API reference documentation: 

- kotlinx.coroutines 

- Bitmovin 

- Hexagon 

749 

• Ktor 

## • OkHttp 

You can run Dokka using Gradle, Maven or from the command line. It is also highly pluggable. 

See Get started with Dokka to take your first steps in using Dokka. 

## **Community** 

Dokka has a dedicated `#dokka` channel in Kotlin Community Slack where you can chat about Dokka, its plugins and how to develop them, as well as get in touch with maintainers. 

## **Get started with Dokka** 

Below you can find simple instructions to help you get started with Dokka. 

This guide applies to Dokka Gradle plugin (DGP) v2 mode. The DGP v1 mode is no longer supported. To upgrade from v1 to v2 mode, follow the Migration guide. 

## **Apply the Gradle Dokka plugin** 

Apply the Dokka Gradle plugin (DGP) in the root build script of your project: 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.2.0"
}
```

## **Document multi-project builds** 

When documenting multi-project builds, apply the plugin to every subproject you want to document. Share Dokka configuration across subprojects by using one of the following approaches: 

- Convention plugin 

- Direct configuration in each subproject if you’re not using convention plugins 

For more information about sharing Dokka configuration in multi-project builds, see Multi-project configuration. 

## **Generate documentation** 

To generate documentation, run the following Gradle task: 

```
./gradlew :dokkaGenerate
```

This task works for both single and multi-project builds. 

Run the `dokkaGenerate` task from the aggregating project by prefixing the task with its project path ( `:` ). For example: 

```
./gradlew :dokkaGenerate
```

```
// OR
```

```
./gradlew :aggregatingProject:dokkaGenerate
```

750 

Avoid running `./gradlew dokkaGenerate` instead of `./gradlew :dokkaGenerate` or `./gradlew` 

`:aggregatingProject:dokkaGenerate` . Without a project path ( `:` ) prefixing the task, Gradle tries to run all `dokkaGenerate` tasks across the entire build, which may trigger unnecessary work. 

You can use different tasks to generate output in HTML, Javadoc or both HTML and Javadoc. 

To learn more about using Dokka with Gradle, see Gradle. 

This guide applies to Dokka Gradle plugin (DGP) v2 mode. The DGP v1 mode is no longer supported. To upgrade from v1 to v2 mode, follow the Migration guide. 

## **Apply the Gradle Dokka plugin** 

Apply the Gradle plugin for Dokka in the root build script of your project: 

## **Gradle Groovy DSL** 

```
plugins {
    id 'org.jetbrains.dokka' version '2.2.0'
}
```

## **Document multi-project builds** 

When documenting multi-project builds, you need to apply the plugin to every subproject you want to document. Share Dokka configuration across subprojects by using one of the following approaches: 

- 

- Convention plugin 

- Direct configuration in each subproject if you’re not using convention plugins 

For more information about sharing Dokka configuration in multi-project builds, see Multi-project configuration. 

## **Generate documentation** 

To generate documentation, run the following Gradle task: 

```
./gradlew :dokkaGenerate
```

This task works for both single and multi-project builds. 

Run the `dokkaGenerate` task from the aggregating project by prefixing the task with its project path. For example: 

```
./gradlew :dokkaGenerate
```

```
// OR
```

```
./gradlew :aggregatingProject:dokkaGenerate
```

Avoid running `./gradlew dokkaGenerate` instead of `./gradlew :dokkaGenerate` or `./gradlew` 

`:aggregatingProject:dokkaGenerate` . Without a project path ( `:` ) prefixing the task, Gradle tries to run all `dokkaGenerate` tasks across the entire build, which may trigger unnecessary work. 

You can use different tasks to generate output in HTML, Javadoc or both HTML and Javadoc. 

To learn more about using Dokka with Gradle, see Gradle. 

Add the Maven plugin for Dokka to the `plugins` section of your POM file: 

751 

## **Maven** 

```
<build>
<plugins>
<plugin>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId>
<artifactId>dokka-maven-plugin//artifactId>
<version>2.2.0//version>
<executions>
<execution>
<phase>pre-site//phase>
<goals>
<goal>dokka//goal>
//goals>
//execution>
//executions>
//plugin>
//plugins>
//build>
```

To generate documentation, run the `dokka:dokka` goal. 

By default, the output directory is set to `target/dokka` . 

To learn more about using Dokka with Maven, see Maven. 

## **Gradle** 

This guide applies to Dokka Gradle plugin (DGP) v2 mode. The previous DGP v1 mode is no longer supported. If you're upgrading from v1 to v2 mode, see the Migration guide. 

To generate documentation for a Gradle-based project, you can use the Gradle plugin for Dokka. 

The Dokka Gradle plugin (DGP) comes with basic autoconfiguration for your project, includes Gradle tasks for generating documentation, and provides configuration options to customize the output. 

You can play around with Dokka and explore how to configure it for various projects in our Gradle example projects. 

## **Supported versions** 

Ensure that your project meets the minimum version requirements: 

**Tool Version** Gradle 7.6 or higher 

Android Gradle plugin 7.0 or higher 

Kotlin Gradle plugin 1.9 or higher 

752 

## **Apply Dokka** 

The recommended way of applying the Gradle plugin for Dokka is with the plugins block. Add it in the `plugins {}` block of your project’s `build.gradle.kts` file: 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.2.0"
}
```

## **Gradle Groovy DSL** 

```
plugins {
    id 'org.jetbrains.dokka' version '2.2.0'
}
```

When documenting multi-project builds, you need to apply the plugin explicitly to every subproject you want to document. You can configure Dokka directly in each subproject or share Dokka configuration across subprojects using a convention plugin. For more information, see how to configure single-project and multi-project builds. 

- Under the hood, Dokka uses the Kotlin Gradle plugin to automatically configure source sets for which documentation is generated. Make sure to apply the Kotlin Gradle Plugin or configure source sets manually. 

- If you are using Dokka in a precompiled script plugin, add the Kotlin Gradle plugin as a dependency to ensure it works properly. 

## **Enable build cache and configuration cache** 

DGP supports Gradle build cache and configuration cache, improving build performance. 

- To enable build cache, follow instructions in the Gradle build cache documentation. 

- To enable configuration cache, follow instructions in the Gradle configuration cache documentation. 

## **Generate documentation** 

The Dokka Gradle plugin comes with HTML and Javadoc output formats built in. 

Use the following Gradle task to generate documentation: 

```
./gradlew :dokkaGenerate
```

The key behavior of the `dokkaGenerate` Gradle task is: 

- This task generates documentation for both single and multi-project builds. 

- By default, the documentation output format is HTML. You can also generate Javadoc or both HTML and Javadoc formats by adding the appropriate plugins. 

753 

- The generated documentation is automatically placed in the `build/dokka/html` directory for both single and multi-project builds. You can change the location ( `outputDirectory` ). 

## **Configure documentation output format** 

The Javadoc output format is in Alpha. You may find bugs and experience migration issues when using it. Successful integration with tools that accept Javadoc as input is not guaranteed. Use it at your own risk. 

You can choose to generate the API documentation in HTML, Javadoc, or both formats at the same time: 

1. Place the corresponding plugin `id` in the `plugins {}` block of your project's `build.gradle.kts` file: 

```
plugins {
// Generates HTML documentation
id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.2.0"
// Generates Javadoc documentation
id("org.jetbrains.dokka-javadoc") version "2.2.0"
// Keeping both plugin IDs generates both formats
}
```

2. Run the corresponding Gradle task. 

Here is a list of the plugin `id` and Gradle task that correspond to each format: 

**HTML Javadoc Both** Plugin `id("org.jetbrains.dokka") id("org.jetbrains.dokka-` Use both HTML and `id javadoc")` Javadoc plugins Gradle `./gradlew ./gradlew ./gradlew` task `:dokkaGeneratePublicationHtm :dokkaGeneratePublicationJavado :dokkaGenerate l c` 

- The `dokkaGenerate` task generates documentation in all available formats based on the applied plugins. If both the HTML and Javadoc plugins are applied, you can choose to generate only HTML by running the `dokkaGeneratePublicationHtml` task, or only Javadoc by running the `dokkaGeneratePublicationJavadoc` task. 

If you're using IntelliJ IDEA, you may see the `dokkaGenerateHtml` Gradle task. This task is simply an alias of `dokkaGeneratePublicationHtml` . Both tasks perform exactly the same operation. 

## **Aggregate documentation output in multi-project builds** 

Dokka can aggregate documentation from multiple subprojects into a single output or publication. 

You have to apply the Dokka plugin to all documentable subprojects before aggregating the documentation. 

754 

To aggregate documentation from multiple subprojects, add the `dependencies {}` block in the `build.gradle.kts` file of the root project: 

```
dependencies {
dokka(project(":childProjectA:"))
dokka(project(":childProjectB:"))
}
```

Given a project with the following structure: 

```
.
└── parentProject/
    ├── childProjectA/
    │   └── demo/
    │       └── ChildProjectAClass.kt
    └── childProjectB/
        └── demo/
            └── ChildProjectBClass.kt
```

The generated documentation is aggregated as follows: 

**==> picture [450 x 326] intentionally omitted <==**

Screenshot for output of dokkaHtmlMultiModule task 

See our multi-project example for more details. 

## **Directory of aggregated documentation** 

When DGP aggregates subprojects, each subproject has its own subdirectory within the aggregated documentation. DGP ensures each subproject has a unique directory by retaining the full project structure. 

755 

For example, given a project with an aggregation in `:turbo-lib` and a nested subproject `:turbo-lib:maths` , the generated documentation is placed under: 

```
turbo-lib/build/dokka/html/turbo-lib/maths/
```

You can revert this behavior by manually specifying the subproject directory. Add the following configuration to the `build.gradle.kts` file of each subproject: 

```
// /turbo-lib/maths/build.gradle.kts
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka")
}
dokka {
// Overrides the subproject directory
    modulePath.set("maths")
}
```

This configuration changes the generated documentation for the `:turbo-lib:maths` module to be generated into `turbo-lib/build/dokka/html/maths/` . 

## **Build javadoc.jar** 

If you want to publish your library to a repository, you may need to provide a `javadoc.jar` file that contains API reference documentation of your library. 

For example, if you want to publish to Maven Central, you must supply a `javadoc.jar` alongside your project. However, not all repositories have that rule. 

The Gradle plugin for Dokka does not provide any way to do this out of the box, but it can be achieved with custom Gradle tasks. One for generating documentation in HTML format and another one for Javadoc format: 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
// To generate documentation in HTML
val dokkaHtmlJar by tasks.registering(Jar/:class){
    description ="A HTML Documentation JAR containing Dokka HTML"
from(tasks.dokkaGeneratePublicationHtml.flatMap{ it.outputDirectory })
    archiveClassifier.set("html-doc")
}
```

```
// To generate documentation in Javadoc
val dokkaJavadocJar by tasks.registering(Jar/:class){
    description ="A Javadoc JAR containing Dokka Javadoc"
from(tasks.dokkaGeneratePublicationJavadoc.flatMap{ it.outputDirectory })
    archiveClassifier.set("javadoc")
}
```

756 

## **Gradle Groovy DSL** 

```
// To generate documentation in HTML
tasks.register('dokkaHtmlJar', Jar){
    description ='A HTML Documentation JAR containing Dokka HTML'
from(tasks.named('dokkaGeneratePublicationHtml').flatMap { it.outputDirectory })
    archiveClassifier.set('html-doc')
}
// To generate documentation in Javadoc
tasks.register('dokkaJavadocJar', Jar){
    description ='A Javadoc JAR containing Dokka Javadoc'
from(tasks.named('dokkaGeneratePublicationJavadoc').flatMap { it.outputDirectory })
    archiveClassifier.set('javadoc')
}
```

If you publish your library to Maven Central, you can use services like javadoc.io to host your library's API documentation for free and without any setup. It takes documentation pages straight from the `javadoc.jar` . It works well with the HTML format as demonstrated in this example. 

## **Configuration examples** 

Depending on the type of project that you have, the way you apply and configure Dokka differs slightly. However, configuration options themselves are the same, regardless of the type of your project. 

For simple and flat projects with a single `build.gradle.kts` or `build.gradle` file found in the root of your - project, see Single project configuration. 

For a more complex build with subprojects and multiple nested `build.gradle.kts` or `build.gradle` files, see Multi-project configuration. 

## **Single-project configuration** 

Single-project builds usually have only one `build.gradle.kts` or `build.gradle` file in the root of the project. They can be either single-platform or multiplatform and typically have the following structure: 

Single platform: 

## **Kotlin** 

**==> picture [144 x 63] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
.<br>├── build.gradle.kts<br>└── src/<br>    └── main/<br>        └── kotlin/<br>            └── HelloWorld.kt<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Multiplatform: 

757 

```
.
├── build.gradle.kts
└── src/
    ├── commonMain/
    │   └── kotlin/
    │       └── Common.kt
    ├── jvmMain/
    │   └── kotlin/
    │       └── JvmUtils.kt
    └── nativeMain/
        └── kotlin/
            └── NativeUtils.kt
```

Single platform: 

## **Groovy** 

```
.
├── build.gradle
└── src/
    └── main/
        └── kotlin/
            └── HelloWorld.kt
```

Multiplatform: 

```
.
├── build.gradle
└── src/
    ├── commonMain/
    │   └── kotlin/
    │       └── Common.kt
    ├── jvmMain/
    │   └── kotlin/
    │       └── JvmUtils.kt
    └── nativeMain/
        └── kotlin/
            └── NativeUtils.kt
```

Apply the Dokka Gradle plugin in your root `build.gradle.kts` file and configure it using the top-level `dokka {}` DSL: 

758 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.2.0"
}
dokka {
    dokkaPublications.html{
        moduleName.set("MyProject")
        outputDirectory.set(layout.buildDirectory.dir("documentation/html"))
        includes.from("README.md")
}
    dokkaSourceSets.main{
        sourceLink {
            localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
            remoteUrl.set(URI("https://github.com/your-repo"))
            remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
}
}
}
```

Inside `./build.gradle` : 

## **Gradle Groovy DSL** 

```
plugins {
    id 'org.jetbrains.dokka' version '2.2.0'
}
dokka {
    dokkaPublications {
        html {
            moduleName.set("MyProject")
            outputDirectory.set(layout.buildDirectory.dir("documentation/html"))
            includes.from("README.md")
}
}
    dokkaSourceSets {
named("main"){
            sourceLink {
                localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
                remoteUrl.set(newURI("https://github.com/your-repo"))
                remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
}
}
}
}
```

This configuration applies Dokka to your project, sets up the documentation output directory, and defines the main source set. You can extend it further by adding custom assets, visibility filters, or plugin configurations within the same `dokka {}` block. For more information, see Configuration options. 

759 

## **Multi-project configuration** 

Multi-project builds usually contain several nested `build.gradle.kts` files and have a structure similar to the following: 

**Kotlin** `. ├── build.gradle.kts ├── settings.gradle.kts ├── subproject-A/ │   ├── build.gradle.kts │   └── src/ │       └── main/ │           └── kotlin/ │               └── HelloFromA.kt └── subproject-B/ ├── build.gradle.kts └── src/ └── main/ └── kotlin/ └── HelloFromB.kt` 

**Groovy** `. ├── build.gradle ├── settings.gradle ├── subproject-A/ │   ├── build.gradle │   └── src/ │       └── main/ │           └── kotlin/ │               └── HelloFromA.kt └── subproject-B/ ├── build.gradle └── src/ └── main/ └── kotlin/ └── HelloFromB.kt` 

Single and multi-project documentation share the same configuration model using the top-level `dokka {}` DSL. 

There are two ways of configuring Dokka in multi-project builds: 

- Shared configuration via a convention plugin **(preferred)** : defining a convention plugin and applying it to all subprojects. This centralizes your Dokka settings. 

- Manual configuration: applying the Dokka plugin and repeating the same `dokka {}` block in each subproject. You don't need convention plugins. 

After configuring your subprojects, you can aggregate the documentation from multiple subprojects into a single output. For more information, see Aggregate documentation output in multi-project-builds. 

For a multi-project example, see the Dokka GitHub repository. 

760 

## **Shared configuration via a convention plugin** 

Follow the next steps to set up a convention plugin and apply it to your subprojects. 

## Set up the buildSrc directory 

1. In your project root, create a `buildSrc` directory containing two files: 

   - `settings.gradle.kts` 

   - `build.gradle.kts` 

2. In the `buildSrc/settings.gradle.kts` file, add the following snippet: 

```
rootProject.name ="buildSrc"
```

3. In the `buildSrc/build.gradle.kts` file, add the following snippet: 

```
plugins {
    `kotlin-dsl`
}
repositories {
mavenCentral()
gradlePluginPortal()
}
dependencies {
implementation("org.jetbrains.dokka:dokka-gradle-plugin:2.2.0")
}
```

## Set up the Dokka convention plugin 

After setting up the `buildSrc` directory, set up the Dokka convention plugin: 

1. Create a `buildSrc/src/main/kotlin/dokka-convention.gradle.kts` file to host the convention plugin. 

2. In the `dokka-convention.gradle.kts` file, add the following snippet: 

```
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka")
}
dokka {
// The shared configuration goes here
}
```

You need to add the shared Dokka configuration common to all subprojects within the `dokka {}` block. Also, you don't need to specify a Dokka version. The version is already set in the `buildSrc/build.gradle.kts` file. 

## Apply the convention plugin to your subprojects 

Apply the Dokka convention plugin across your subprojects by adding it to each subproject's `build.gradle.kts` file: 

```
plugins {
id("dokka-convention")
}
```

761 

## **Manual configuration** 

If your project doesn't use convention plugins, you can reuse the same Dokka configuration pattern by manually copying the same `dokka {} block` into each subproject: 

1. Apply the Dokka plugin in every subproject's `build.gradle.kts` file: 

```
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.2.0"
}
```

2. Declare the shared configuration in each subproject's `dokka {}` block. Because there's no convention plugin centralizing the configuration, you duplicate any configuration you want across subprojects. For more information, see configuration options. 

## **Parent project configuration** 

In multi-project builds, you can configure settings that apply to the entire documentation in the root project. This can include defining the output format, output directory, documentation subproject name, aggregating 

documentation from all subprojects, and other configuration options: 

```
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.2.0"
}
dokka {
// Sets properties for the whole project
    dokkaPublications.html{
        moduleName.set("My Project")
        outputDirectory.set(layout.buildDirectory.dir("docs/html"))
        includes.from("README.md")
}
    dokkaSourceSets.configureEach{
        documentedVisibilities.set(setOf(VisibilityModifier.Public))// OR
documentedVisibilities(VisibilityModifier.Public)
}
}
// Aggregates subproject documentation
dependencies {
dokka(project(":childProjectA"))
dokka(project(":childProjectB"))
}
```

Additionally, each subproject can have its own `dokka {}` block if it needs custom configuration. In the following example, the subproject applies the Dokka plugin, sets a custom subproject name, and includes additional documentation from its `README.md` file: 

762 

```
// subproject/build.gradle.kts
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka")
}
dokka {
    dokkaPublications.html{
        moduleName.set("Child Project A")
        includes.from("README.md")
}
}
```

## **Dokka Gradle configuration options** 

Dokka has many configuration options to customize your and your reader's experience. 

Below are detailed descriptions for each configuration section and some examples. You can also find an example with all configuration options applied. 

For more details on applying configuration blocks for single-project and multi-project builds, see Configuration examples. 

## **General configuration** 

Here is an example of the general Dokka Gradle plugin configuration: 

- Use the top-level `dokka {}` DSL configuration. 

- In DGP, you declare Dokka publication configurations in the `dokkaPublications{}` block. 

- The default publications are `html` and `javadoc` . 

- The syntax of `build.gradle.kts` files differs from regular `.kt` files (such as those used for Kotlin custom plugins) because Gradle's Kotlin DSL uses type-safe accessors. 

763 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.2.0"
}
```

```
dokka {
    dokkaPublications.html{
        moduleName.set(project.name)
        moduleVersion.set(project.version.toString())
// Standard output directory for HTML documentation
        outputDirectory.set(layout.buildDirectory.dir("dokka/html"))
        failOnWarning.set(false)
        suppressInheritedMembers.set(false)
        suppressObviousFunctions.set(true)
        offlineMode.set(false)
        includes.from("packages.md","extra.md")
// Output directory for additional files
// Use this block instead of the standard when you
// want to change the output directory and include extra files
        outputDirectory.set(rootDir.resolve("docs/api/0.x"))
// Use fileTree to add multiple files
        includes.from(
fileTree("docs"){
include("**/*.md")
}
)
}
}
```

For more information about working with files, see the Gradle docs. 

764 

## **Kotlin custom plugin** 

```
// CustomPlugin.kt
```

```
import org.gradle.api.Plugin
import org.gradle.api.Project
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.DokkaExtension
```

```
abstractclass CustomPlugin : Plugin<Project>{
overridefunapply(project: Project){
        project.plugins.apply("org.jetbrains.dokka")
```

```
        project.extensions.configure(DokkaExtension/:class.java){ dokka />
```

```
            dokka.moduleName.set(project.name)
            dokka.moduleVersion.set(project.version.toString())
```

```
            dokka.dokkaPublications.named("html"){ publication />
// Standard output directory for HTML documentation
                publication.outputDirectory.set(project.layout.buildDirectory.dir("dokka/html"))
                publication.failOnWarning.set(true)
                publication.suppressInheritedMembers.set(true)
                publication.offlineMode.set(false)
                publication.suppressObviousFunctions.set(true)
                publication.includes.from("packages.md","extra.md")
```

```
// Output directory for additional files
// Use this instead of the standard block when you
// want to change the output directory and include extra files
                html.outputDirectory.set(project.rootDir.resolve("docs/api/0.x"))
}
}
}
}
```

765 

**Gradle Groovy DSL** 

```
plugins {
    id 'org.jetbrains.dokka' version '2.2.0'
}
dokka {
    dokkaPublications {
        html {
// Sets general module information
            moduleName.set(project.name)
            moduleVersion.set(project.version.toString())
```

```
// Standard output directory for HTML documentation
            outputDirectory.set(layout.buildDirectory.dir("dokka/html"))
// Core Dokka options
            failOnWarning.set(false)
            suppressInheritedMembers.set(false)
            suppressObviousFunctions.set(true)
            offlineMode.set(false)
            includes.from(files("packages.md","extra.md"))
// Output directory for additional files
// Use this block instead of the standard when you want to
// change the output directory and include extra files
"
            outputDirectory.set(file($rootDir/docs/api/0.x"))
}
}
}
```

## moduleName 

The display name for the project’s documentation. It appears in the table of contents, navigation, headers, and log messages. In multi-project builds, each subproject's `moduleName` is used as its section title in aggregated documentation. 

Default: Gradle project name 

## moduleVersion 

The subproject version displayed in the generated documentation. In single-project builds, it is used as the project version. In multi-project builds, each subproject's `moduleVersion` is used when aggregating documentation. 

Default: Gradle project version 

## outputDirectory 

The directory where the generated documentation is stored. 

This setting applies to all documentation formats (HTML, Javadoc, etc.) generated by the `dokkaGenerate` task. 

Default: `build/dokka/html` 

Output directory for additional files 

You can specify the output directory and include additional files for both single and multi-project builds. For multi-project builds, set the output directory and include additional files in the configuration of the root project. 

## failOnWarning 

Determines whether Dokka should fail the build when a warning occurs during documentation generation. The process waits until all errors and warnings have been emitted first. 

766 

This setting works well with `reportUndocumented` . 

## Default: `false` 

## suppressInheritedMembers 

Whether to suppress inherited members that aren't explicitly overridden in a given class. 

Note: This suppresses functions such as `equals` , `hashCode` , and `toString` , but does not suppress synthetic functions such as `dataClass.componentN` and `dataClass.copy` . Use `suppressObviousFunctions` for that. 

Default: `false` 

## suppressObviousFunctions 

Whether to suppress obvious functions. 

A function is considered to be obvious if it is: 

- Inherited from `kotlin.Any` , `Kotlin.Enum` , `java.lang.Object` or `java.lang.Enum` , such as `equals` , `hashCode` , `toString` . 

- Synthetic (generated by the compiler) and does not have any documentation, such as `dataClass.componentN` or `dataClass.copy` . 

Default: `true` 

## offlineMode 

Whether to resolve remote files and links over your network. 

This includes package-lists used for generating links to external documentation.. For example, this allows to make classes from the standard library clickable in your documentation. 

Setting this to `true` can significantly speed up build times in certain cases, but can also worsen user experience. For example, by not resolving class and member links from your dependencies, including the standard library. 

Note: You can cache fetched files locally and provide them to Dokka as local paths. See the 

externalDocumentationLinks section. 

Default: `false` 

## includes 

A list of Markdown files that contain subproject and package documentation. The Markdown files must match the required format. 

The contents of the specified files are parsed and embedded into documentation as subproject and package descriptions. 

See Dokka Gradle example for an example of what it looks like and how to use it. 

## **Source set configuration** 

Dokka allows configuring some options for Kotlin source sets: 

767 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.parameters.VisibilityModifier
```

```
dokka {
// /.
// General configuration section
// /.
// Source sets configuration
    dokkaSourceSets {
// Example: Configuration exclusive to the 'linux' source set
named("linux"){
            dependentSourceSets{named("native")}
            sourceRoots.from(file("linux/src"))
}
        configureEach {
            suppress.set(false)
            displayName.set(name)
            documentedVisibilities.set(setOf(VisibilityModifier.Public))// OR
documentedVisibilities(VisibilityModifier.Public)
            reportUndocumented.set(false)
            skipEmptyPackages.set(true)
            skipDeprecated.set(false)
            suppressGeneratedFiles.set(true)
            jdkVersion.set(8)
            languageVersion.set("1.7")
            apiVersion.set("1.7")
            sourceRoots.from(file("src"))
            classpath.from(file("libs/dependency.jar"))
            samples.from("samples/Basic.kt","samples/Advanced.kt")
            sourceLink {
// Source link section
}
            perPackageOption {
// Package options section
}
            externalDocumentationLinks {
// External documentation links section
}
}
}
}
```

768 

## **Gradle Groovy DSL** 

```
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.parameters.VisibilityModifier
```

```
dokka {
// /.
// General configuration section
// /.
    dokkaSourceSets {
// Example: Configuration exclusive to the 'linux' source set
named("linux"){
            dependentSourceSets {named("native")}
            sourceRoots.from(file("linux/src"))
}
        configureEach {
            suppress.set(false)
            displayName.set(name)
            documentedVisibilities.set([VisibilityModifier.Public]as Set)// OR
documentedVisibilities(VisibilityModifier.Public)
            reportUndocumented.set(false)
            skipEmptyPackages.set(true)
            skipDeprecated.set(false)
            suppressGeneratedFiles.set(true)
            jdkVersion.set(8)
            languageVersion.set("1.7")
            apiVersion.set("1.7")
            sourceRoots.from(file("src"))
            classpath.from(file("libs/dependency.jar"))
            samples.from("samples/Basic.kt","samples/Advanced.kt")
            sourceLink {
// Source link section
}
            perPackageOption {
// Package options section
}
            externalDocumentationLinks {
// External documentation links section
}
}
}
}
```

## suppress 

Whether this source set should be skipped when generating documentation. 

Default: `false` 

## displayName 

The display name used to refer to this source set. 

The name is used both externally (for example, as the source set name visible to documentation readers) and internally (for example, for logging messages of `reportUndocumented` ). 

By default, the value is deduced from information provided by the Kotlin Gradle plugin. 

## documentedVisibilities 

Defines which visibility modifiers Dokka should include in the generated documentation. 

769 

Use them if you want to document `protected` , `internal` , and `private` declarations, as well as if you want to exclude `public` declarations and only document internal API. 

## Additionally, you can use Dokka's `documentedVisibilities()` function to add documented visibilities. 

This can be configured for each individual package. 

## Default: `VisibilityModifier.Public` 

## reportUndocumented 

Whether to emit warnings about visible undocumented declarations, that is declarations without KDocs after they have been filtered by `documentedVisibilities` and other filters. 

This setting works well with `failOnWarning` . 

This can be configured for each individual package. 

Default: `false` 

## skipEmptyPackages 

Whether to skip packages that contain no visible declarations after various filters have been applied. 

For example, if `skipDeprecated` is set to `true` and your package contains only deprecated declarations, it is considered to be empty. 

Default: `true` 

## skipDeprecated 

Whether to document declarations annotated with `@Deprecated` . 

This can be configured for each individual package. 

Default: `false` 

## suppressGeneratedFiles 

Whether to document generated files. 

Generated files are expected to be present under the `{project}/{buildDir}/generated` directory. 

If set to `true` , it effectively adds all files from that directory to the `suppressedFiles` option, so you can configure it manually. 

Default: `true` 

## suppressAnnotatedWith 

A set of annotation fully qualified names (FQNs) to suppress declarations annotated with. 

Any declaration annotated with one of these annotations is excluded from the generated documentation. 

## jdkVersion 

The JDK version to use when generating external documentation links for Java types. 

For example, if you use `java.util.UUID` in some public declaration signature, and this option is set to `8` , Dokka generates an external documentation link to JDK 8 Javadocs for it. 

Default: `8` 

## languageVersion 

The Kotlin language version used for setting up analysis and @sample environment. 

By default, the latest language version available to Dokka's embedded compiler is used. 

## apiVersion 

The Kotlin API version used for setting up analysis and @sample environment. 

770 

By default, it is deduced from `languageVersion` . 

## sourceRoots 

The source code roots to be analyzed and documented. Acceptable inputs are directories and individual `.kt` and `.java` files. 

By default, source roots are deduced from information provided by the Kotlin Gradle plugin. 

## classpath 

The classpath for analysis and interactive samples. 

This is useful if some types that come from dependencies are not resolved or picked up automatically. 

This option accepts both `.jar` and `.klib` files. 

By default, the classpath is deduced from information provided by the Kotlin Gradle plugin. 

## samples 

A list of directories or files that contain sample functions which are referenced via the @sample KDoc tag. 

## **Source link configuration** 

Configure source links to help readers find the source for each declaration in a remote repository. Use the `dokkaSourceSets.main {}` block for this configuration. 

The `sourceLinks {}` configuration block allows you to add a `source` link to each signature that leads to the `remoteUrl` with a specific line number. The line number is configurable by setting `remoteLineSuffix` . 

For an example, see the documentation for the `count()` function in `kotlinx.coroutines` . 

The syntax of `build.gradle.kts` files differs from regular `.kt` files (such as those used for custom Gradle plugins) because Gradle's Kotlin DSL uses type-safe accessors: 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
// build.gradle.kts
dokka {
    dokkaSourceSets.main{
        sourceLink {
            localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
remoteUrl("https://github.com/your-repo")
            remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
}
}
}
```

771 

## **Kotlin custom plugin** 

```
// CustomPlugin.kt
```

```
import org.gradle.api.Plugin
import org.gradle.api.Project
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.DokkaExtension
```

```
abstractclass CustomPlugin : Plugin<Project>{
overridefunapply(project: Project){
        project.plugins.apply("org.jetbrains.dokka")
        project.extensions.configure(DokkaExtension/:class.java){ dokka />
            dokka.dokkaSourceSets.named("main"){ dss />
                dss.includes.from("README.md")
                dss.sourceLink{
                    it.localDirectory.set(project.file("src/main/kotlin"))
                    it.remoteUrl("https://example.com/src")
                    it.remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
}
}
}
}
}
```

## **Gradle Groovy DSL** 

```
dokka {
    dokkaSourceSets {
        main {
            sourceLink {
                localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
                remoteUrl.set(newURI("https://github.com/your-repo"))
                remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
}
}
}
}
```

## localDirectory 

The path to the local source directory. The path must be relative to the root of the current project. 

## remoteUrl 

The URL of the source code hosting service that can be accessed by documentation readers, like GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or any hosting service that provides stable URLs for source files. This URL is used to generate source code links of declarations. 

## remoteLineSuffix 

The suffix used to append the source code line number to the URL. This helps readers navigate not only to the file, but to the specific line number of the declaration. 

The number itself is appended to the specified suffix. For example, if this option is set to `#L` and the line number is 10, the resulting URL suffix is `#L10` . 

Suffixes used by popular services: 

- GitHub: `#L` 

- GitLab: `#L` 

772 

• Bitbucket: `#lines-` 

Default: `#L` 

## **Package options** 

The `perPackageOption` configuration block allows setting some options for specific packages matched by `matchingRegex` : 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.parameters.VisibilityModifier
```

```
dokka {
    dokkaPublications.html{
        dokkaSourceSets.configureEach{
            perPackageOption {
                matchingRegex.set(".*api.*")
                suppress.set(false)
                skipDeprecated.set(false)
                reportUndocumented.set(false)
                documentedVisibilities.set(setOf(VisibilityModifier.Public))// OR
documentedVisibilities(VisibilityModifier.Public)
}
}
}
}
```

## **Gradle Groovy DSL** 

```
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.parameters.VisibilityModifier
```

```
dokka {
    dokkaPublications {
        html {
            dokkaSourceSets.configureEach {
                perPackageOption {
                    matchingRegex.set(".*api.*")
                    suppress.set(false)
                    skipDeprecated.set(false)
                    reportUndocumented.set(false)
                    documentedVisibilities.set([VisibilityModifier.Public]as Set)
}
}
}
}
}
```

## matchingRegex 

The regular expression that is used to match the package. 

Default: `.*` 

## suppress 

Whether the package should be skipped when generating documentation. 

Default: `false` 

773 

## skipDeprecated 

Whether to document declarations annotated with `@Deprecated` . 

This can be configured on the source set level. 

## Default: `false` 

## reportUndocumented 

Whether to emit warnings about visible undocumented declarations, that is declarations without KDocs after they have been filtered by `documentedVisibilities` and other filters. 

This setting works well with `failOnWarning` . 

This can be configured on the source set level. 

## Default: `false` 

## documentedVisibilities 

Defines which visibility modifiers Dokka should include in the generated documentation. 

Use them if you want to document `protected` , `internal` , and `private` declarations within this package, as well as if you want to exclude `public` declarations and only document internal API. 

Additionally, you can use Dokka's `documentedVisibilities()` function to add documented visibilities. 

This can be configured on the source set level. 

Default: `VisibilityModifier.Public` 

## **External documentation links configuration** 

The `externalDocumentationLinks {}` block allows the creation of links that lead to the externally hosted documentation of your dependencies. 

For example, if you are using types from `kotlinx.serialization` , by default they are not clickable in your documentation, as if they are unresolved. However, since the API reference documentation for 

`kotlinx.serialization` is built by Dokka and is published on kotlinlang.org, you can configure external 

documentation links for it. This allows Dokka to generate links for types from the library, making them resolve successfully and clickable. 

By default, external documentation links for Kotlin standard library, JDK, Android SDK, and AndroidX are configured. 

Register external documentation links using the `register()` method to define each link. The `externalDocumentationLinks` API uses this method aligning with Gradle DSL conventions: 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
dokka {
    dokkaSourceSets.configureEach{
        externalDocumentationLinks.register("example-docs"){
url("https://example.com/docs/")
packageListUrl("https://example.com/docs/package-list")
}
}
}
```

774 

## **Gradle Groovy DSL** 

```
dokka {
    dokkaSourceSets.configureEach {
        externalDocumentationLinks.register("example-docs"){
            url.set(newURI("https://example.com/docs/"))
            packageListUrl.set(newURI("https://example.com/docs/package-list"))
}
}
}
```

## url 

The root URL of documentation to link to. It must contain a trailing slash. 

Dokka does its best to automatically find `package-list` for the given URL, and link declarations together. 

If the automatic resolution fails or if you want to use locally cached files instead, consider setting the `packageListUrl` option. 

## packageListUrl 

The exact location of a `package-list` . This is an alternative to relying on Dokka automatically resolving it. 

Package lists contain information about the documentation and the project itself, such as subproject and package names. 

This can also be a locally cached file to avoid network calls. 

## **Complete configuration** 

Below you can see all possible configuration options applied at the same time: 

775 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.parameters.VisibilityModifier
```

```
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.2.0"
}
```

```
dokka {
    dokkaPublications.html{
        moduleName.set(project.name)
        moduleVersion.set(project.version.toString())
        outputDirectory.set(layout.buildDirectory.dir("dokka/html"))
        failOnWarning.set(false)
        suppressInheritedMembers.set(false)
        suppressObviousFunctions.set(true)
        offlineMode.set(false)
        includes.from("packages.md","extra.md")
}
    dokkaSourceSets {
// Example: Configuration exclusive to the 'linux' source set
named("linux"){
            dependentSourceSets{named("native")}
            sourceRoots.from(file("linux/src"))
}
        configureEach {
            suppress.set(false)
            displayName.set(name)
            documentedVisibilities.set(setOf(VisibilityModifier.Public))// OR
documentedVisibilities(VisibilityModifier.Public)
            reportUndocumented.set(false)
            skipEmptyPackages.set(true)
            skipDeprecated.set(false)
            suppressGeneratedFiles.set(true)
            jdkVersion.set(8)
            languageVersion.set("1.7")
            apiVersion.set("1.7")
            sourceRoots.from(file("src"))
            classpath.from(file("libs/dependency.jar"))
            samples.from("samples/Basic.kt","samples/Advanced.kt")
            sourceLink {
                localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
remoteUrl("https://example.com/src")
                remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
}
            externalDocumentationLinks {
                url =URL("https://example.com/docs/")
                packageListUrl =File("/path/to/package-list").toURI().toURL()
}
            perPackageOption {
                matchingRegex.set(".*api.*")
                suppress.set(false)
                skipDeprecated.set(false)
                reportUndocumented.set(false)
                documentedVisibilities.set(
setOf(
                        VisibilityModifier.Public,
```

776 

```
                        VisibilityModifier.Private,
                        VisibilityModifier.Protected,
                        VisibilityModifier.Internal,
                        VisibilityModifier.Package
)
)
}
}
}
}
```

777 

**Gradle Groovy DSL** 

```
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.parameters.VisibilityModifier
```

```
plugins {
    id 'org.jetbrains.dokka' version '2.2.0'
}
dokka {
    dokkaPublications {
        html {
            moduleName.set(project.name)
            moduleVersion.set(project.version.toString())
            outputDirectory.set(layout.buildDirectory.dir("dokka/html"))
            failOnWarning.set(false)
            suppressInheritedMembers.set(false)
            suppressObviousFunctions.set(true)
            offlineMode.set(false)
            includes.from("packages.md","extra.md")
}
}
    dokkaSourceSets {
// Example: Configuration exclusive to the 'linux' source set
named("linux"){
            dependentSourceSets {named("native")}
            sourceRoots.from(file("linux/src"))
}
        configureEach {
            suppress.set(false)
            displayName.set(name)
            documentedVisibilities.set([VisibilityModifier.Public]as Set)
            reportUndocumented.set(false)
            skipEmptyPackages.set(true)
            skipDeprecated.set(false)
            suppressGeneratedFiles.set(true)
            jdkVersion.set(8)
            languageVersion.set("1.7")
            apiVersion.set("1.7")
            sourceRoots.from(file("src"))
            classpath.from(file("libs/dependency.jar"))
            samples.from("samples/Basic.kt","samples/Advanced.kt")
            sourceLink {
                localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
                remoteUrl.set(newURI("https://example.com/src"))
                remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
}
            externalDocumentationLinks {
                url.set(newURI("https://example.com/docs/"))
                packageListUrl.set(newFile("/path/to/package-list").toURI().toURL())
}
```

```
            perPackageOption {
                matchingRegex.set(".*api.*")
                suppress.set(false)
                skipDeprecated.set(false)
                reportUndocumented.set(false)
                documentedVisibilities.set([
                        VisibilityModifier.Public,
```

778 

```
                        VisibilityModifier.Private,
                        VisibilityModifier.Protected,
                        VisibilityModifier.Internal,
                        VisibilityModifier.Package
]as Set)
}
}
}
}
```

## **Dokka Gradle troubleshooting** 

This page describes common issues you may encounter when generating documentation with Dokka in a Gradle build. 

If your issue is not listed here, report any feedback or problems in our issue tracker or chat with the Dokka community in the official Kotlin Slack. Get a Slack invite here. 

## **Memory issues** 

In large projects, Dokka can consume a significant amount of memory to generate documentation. This can exceed Gradle’s memory limits, especially when processing large volumes of data. 

When Dokka generation runs out of memory, the build fails, and Gradle can throw exceptions like 

`java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Metaspace` . 

Active efforts are underway to improve Dokka's performance, although some limitations stem from Gradle. 

If you encounter memory issues, try these workarounds: 

- Increasing heap space 

- 

- Running Dokka within the Gradle process 

## **Increase heap space** 

One way to resolve memory issues is to increase the amount of Java heap memory for the Dokka generator process. In the `build.gradle.kts` file, adjust the following configuration option: 

```
dokka {
// Dokka generates a new process managed by Gradle
        dokkaGeneratorIsolation = ProcessIsolation {
// Configures heap size
            maxHeapSize ="4g"
}
}
```

In this example, the maximum heap size is set to 4 GB ( `"4g"` ). Adjust and test the value to find the optimal setting for your build. 

If you find that Dokka requires a considerably expanded heap size, for example, significantly higher than Gradle's own memory usage, create an issue on Dokka's GitHub repository. 

You have to apply this configuration to each subproject. It is recommended that you configure Dokka in a convention plugin applied to all subprojects. 

779 

## **Run Dokka within the Gradle process** 

When both the Gradle build and Dokka generation require a lot of memory, they may run as separate processes, consuming significant memory on a single machine. 

To optimize memory usage, you can run Dokka within the same Gradle process instead of as a separate process. This allows you to configure the memory for Gradle once instead of allocating it separately for each process. 

To run Dokka within the same Gradle process, adjust the following configuration option in the `build.gradle.kts` file: 

```
dokka {
// Runs Dokka in the current Gradle process
        dokkaGeneratorIsolation =ClassLoaderIsolation()
}
```

As with increasing heap space, test this configuration to confirm it works well for your project. 

For more details on configuring Gradle's JVM memory, see the Gradle documentation. 

Changing the Java options for Gradle launches a new Gradle daemon, which may stay alive for a long time. You can manually stop any other Gradle processes. 

Additionally, Gradle issues with the `ClassLoaderIsolation()` configuration may cause memory leaks. 

## **Migrate to Dokka Gradle plugin v2** 

This page is only relevant if you are using DGPv1 and want to migrate to DGPv2. Starting from Dokka 2.1.0, DGP v2 is enabled by default. If you are using Dokka 2.1.0 or later, you can skip this page and go directly to the Dokka Gradle docs. 

The Dokka Gradle plugin (DGP) is a tool for generating comprehensive API documentation for Kotlin projects built with Gradle. 

DGP seamlessly processes both Kotlin's KDoc comments and Java's Javadoc comments to extract information and create structured documentation in HTML or Javadoc format. 

The Dokka Gradle plugin v2 mode is enabled by default and aligns with Gradle best practices: 

- Adopts Gradle types, which leads to better performance. 

- Uses an intuitive top-level DSL configuration instead of a low-level task-based setup, which simplifies the build scripts and their readability. 

- Takes a more declarative approach to documentation aggregation, which makes multi-project documentation easier to manage. 

- 

   - Uses a type-safe plugin configuration, which improves the reliability and maintainability of your build scripts. 

- Fully supports Gradle configuration cache and build cache, which improves performance and simplifies build work. 

Read this guide for further information on changes and migration from DGP v1 to v2 modes. 

780 

## **Before you start** 

Before starting the migration, complete the following steps. 

## **Verify supported versions** 

Ensure that your project meets the minimum version requirements: 

**Tool Version** Gradle 7.6 or higher Android Gradle plugin 7.0 or higher Kotlin Gradle plugin 1.9 or higher 

## **Enable DGP v2** 

Update the Dokka version to 2.2.0 in the `plugins {}` block of your project’s `build.gradle.kts` file: 

```
plugins {
kotlin("jvm") version "2.1.10"
id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.2.0"
}
```

Alternatively, you can use version catalog to enable the Dokka Gradle plugin v2. 

By default, DGP v2 generates documentation in HTML format. To generate Javadoc or both HTML and Javadoc formats, add the appropriate plugins. For more information about the plugins, see Select documentation output format. 

## **Enable migration helpers** 

In the project's `gradle.properties` file, set the following Gradle property to activate DGP v2 with helpers: 

```
org.jetbrains.dokka.experimental.gradle.pluginMode=V2EnabledWithHelpers
```

If your project doesn't have a `gradle.properties` file, create one in the root directory of your project. 

This property activates the DGP v2 plugin with migration helpers. These helpers prevent compilation errors when build scripts reference tasks from DGP v1 that are no longer available in DGP v2. 

Migration helpers do not actively assist with the migration. They only keep your build script from breaking while you transition to the new API. 

After completing the migration, disable the migration helpers. 

781 

## **Sync your project with Gradle** 

After enabling DGP v2 and migration helpers, sync your project with Gradle to ensure DGP v2 is properly applied: 

**==> picture [23 x 20] intentionally omitted <==**

- If you use IntelliJ IDEA, click the **Reload All Gradle Projects** 

      - button in the Gradle tool window. 

   - If you use Android Studio, select **File** | **Sync Project with Gradle Files** . 

- 

## **Migrate your project** 

After updating the Dokka Gradle plugin to v2, follow the migration steps applicable to your project. 

## **Adjust configuration options** 

DGP v2 introduces some changes in the Gradle configuration options. In the `build.gradle.kts` file, adjust the configuration options according to your project setup. 

## **Top-level DSL configuration in DGP v2** 

Replace the configuration syntax of DGP v1 with the top-level `dokka {}` DSL configuration of DGP v2: 

Configuration in DGP v1: 

```
tasks.withType<DokkaTask>().configureEach{
    suppressInheritedMembers.set(true)
    failOnWarning.set(true)
    dokkaSourceSets {
named("main"){
            moduleName.set("Project Name")
            includes.from("README.md")
            sourceLink {
                localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
                remoteUrl.set(URL("https://example.com/src"))
                remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
}
}
}
}
tasks.dokkaHtml{
    pluginConfiguration<DokkaBase, DokkaBaseConfiguration>{
        customStyleSheets.set(listOf("styles.css"))
        customAssets.set(listOf("logo.png"))
        footerMessage.set("(c) Your Company")
}
}
```

Configuration in DGP v2: 

The syntax of `build.gradle.kts` files differs from regular `.kt` files (such as those used for custom Gradle plugins) because Gradle's Kotlin DSL uses type-safe accessors. 

782 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
// build.gradle.kts
```

```
dokka {
    moduleName.set("Project Name")
    dokkaPublications.html{
        suppressInheritedMembers.set(true)
        failOnWarning.set(true)
}
    dokkaSourceSets.main{
        includes.from("README.md")
        sourceLink {
            localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
remoteUrl("https://example.com/src")
            remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
}
}
    pluginsConfiguration.html{
        customStyleSheets.from("styles.css")
        customAssets.from("logo.png")
        footerMessage.set("(c) Your Company")
}
}
```

783 

## **Kotlin custom plugin** 

```
// CustomPlugin.kt
```

```
import org.gradle.api.Plugin
import org.gradle.api.Project
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.DokkaExtension
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.plugins.DokkaHtmlPluginParameters
```

```
abstractclass CustomPlugin : Plugin<Project>{
overridefunapply(project: Project){
        project.plugins.apply("org.jetbrains.dokka")
```

```
        project.extensions.configure(DokkaExtension/:class.java){ dokka />
```

```
            dokka.dokkaPublications.named("html"){ publication />
                publication.suppressInheritedMembers.set(true)
                publication.failOnWarning.set(true)
}
```

```
            dokka.dokkaSourceSets.named("main"){ dss />
                dss.includes.from("README.md")
                dss.sourceLink{
                    it.localDirectory.set(project.file("src/main/kotlin"))
                    it.remoteUrl("https://example.com/src")
                    it.remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
}
}
```

```
            dokka.pluginsConfiguration.named("html", DokkaHtmlPluginParameters/:class.java){ html />
                html.customStyleSheets.from("styles.css")
                html.customAssets.from("logo.png")
                html.footerMessage.set("(c) Your Company")
}
}
}
}
```

## **Visibility settings** 

Set the `documentedVisibilities` property from `Visibility.PUBLIC` to `VisibilityModifier.Public` . 

Configuration in DGP v1: 

```
import org.jetbrains.dokka.DokkaConfiguration.Visibility
// //.
documentedVisibilities.set(
setOf(Visibility.PUBLIC)
)
```

Configuration in DGP v2: 

784 

```
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.engine.parameters.VisibilityModifier
```

```
// //.
documentedVisibilities.set(
setOf(VisibilityModifier.Public)
)
// OR
documentedVisibilities(VisibilityModifier.Public)
```

## Additionally, use DGP v2's utility function to add documented visibilities: 

```
fundocumentedVisibilities(vararg visibilities: VisibilityModifier): Unit =
    documentedVisibilities.set(visibilities.asList())
```

## **Source links** 

Configure source links to allow navigation from the generated documentation to the corresponding source code in a remote repository. Use the `dokkaSourceSets.main{}` block for this configuration. 

Configuration in DGP v1: 

```
tasks.withType<DokkaTask>().configureEach{
    dokkaSourceSets {
named("main"){
            sourceLink {
                localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
                remoteUrl.set(URL("https://github.com/your-repo"))
                remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
}
}
}
}
```

## Configuration in DGP v2: 

The syntax of `build.gradle.kts` files differs from regular `.kt` files (such as those used for custom Gradle plugins) because Gradle's Kotlin DSL uses type-safe accessors. 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
// build.gradle.kts
dokka {
    dokkaSourceSets.main{
        sourceLink {
            localDirectory.set(file("src/main/kotlin"))
remoteUrl("https://github.com/your-repo")
            remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
}
}
}
```

785 

## **Kotlin custom plugin** 

```
// CustomPlugin.kt
import org.gradle.api.Plugin
import org.gradle.api.Project
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.DokkaExtension
```

```
abstractclass CustomPlugin : Plugin<Project>{
overridefunapply(project: Project){
        project.plugins.apply("org.jetbrains.dokka")
        project.extensions.configure(DokkaExtension/:class.java){ dokka />
            dokka.dokkaSourceSets.named("main"){ dss />
                dss.includes.from("README.md")
                dss.sourceLink{
                    it.localDirectory.set(project.file("src/main/kotlin"))
                    it.remoteUrl("https://example.com/src")
                    it.remoteLineSuffix.set("#L")
}
}
}
}
}
```

Since the source link configuration has changed, use the `URI` class instead of `URL` to specify the remote URL. 

Configuration in DGP v1: 

```
remoteUrl.set(URL("https://github.com/your-repo"))
```

Configuration in DGP v2: 

```
remoteUrl.set(URI("https://github.com/your-repo"))
```

```
// or
remoteUrl("https://github.com/your-repo")
```

## Additionally, DGP v2 has two utility functions for setting the URL: 

```
funremoteUrl(@Language("http-url-reference") value: String): Unit =
    remoteUrl.set(URI(value))
```

```
// and
funremoteUrl(value: Provider<String>): Unit =
    remoteUrl.set(value.map(/:URI))
```

## **External documentation links** 

Register external documentation links using the `register()` method to define each link. The `externalDocumentationLinks` API uses this method aligning with Gradle DSL conventions. 

Configuration in DGP v1: 

786 

```
tasks.dokkaHtml{
    dokkaSourceSets {
        configureEach {
            externalDocumentationLink {
                url =URL("https://example.com/docs/")
                packageListUrl =File("/path/to/package-list").toURI().toURL()
}
}
}
}
```

Configuration in DGP v2: 

```
dokka {
    dokkaSourceSets.configureEach{
        externalDocumentationLinks.register("example-docs"){
url("https://example.com/docs/")
packageListUrl("https://example.com/docs/package-list")
}
}
}
```

## **Custom assets** 

Use the `customAssets` property with collections of files ( `FileCollection` ) instead of lists ( `var List<File>` ). 

Configuration in DGP v1: 

```
customAssets =listOf(file("example.png"),file("example2.png"))
```

Configuration in DGP v2: 

```
customAssets.from("example.png","example2.png")
```

## **Output directory** 

Use the `dokka {}` block to specify the output directory for the generated Dokka documentation. 

Configuration in DGP v1: 

```
tasks.dokkaHtml{
    outputDirectory.set(layout.buildDirectory.dir("dokkaDir"))
}
```

Configuration in DGP v2: 

```
dokka {
    dokkaPublications.html{
        outputDirectory.set(layout.buildDirectory.dir("dokkaDir"))
}
}
```

## **Output directory for additional files** 

Specify the output directory and include additional files for both single-module and multi-module projects inside the `dokka {}` block. 

787 

In DGP v2, the configuration for single-module and multi-module projects is unified. Instead of configuring 

`dokkaHtml` and `dokkaHtmlMultiModule` tasks separately, specify the settings in `dokkaPublications.html {}` within the `dokka {}` block. 

For multi-module projects, set the output directory and include additional files (such as `README.md` ) in the configuration of the root project. 

Configuration in DGP v1: 

```
tasks.dokkaHtmlMultiModule{
    outputDirectory.set(rootDir.resolve("docs/api/0.x"))
    includes.from(project.layout.projectDirectory.file("README.md"))
}
```

Configuration in DGP v2: 

The syntax of `build.gradle.kts` files differs from regular `.kt` files (such as those used for custom Gradle plugins) because Gradle's Kotlin DSL uses type-safe accessors. 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
// build.gradle.kts
```

```
dokka {
    dokkaPublications.html{
        outputDirectory.set(rootDir.resolve("docs/api/0.x"))
        includes.from(project.layout.projectDirectory.file("README.md"))
}
}
```

## **Kotlin custom plugin** 

```
// CustomPlugin.kt
```

```
import org.gradle.api.Plugin
import org.gradle.api.Project
import org.jetbrains.dokka.gradle.DokkaExtension
```

```
abstractclass CustomPlugin : Plugin<Project>{
overridefunapply(project: Project){
        project.plugins.apply("org.jetbrains.dokka")
        project.extensions.configure(DokkaExtension/:class.java){ dokka />
            dokka.dokkaPublications.named("html"){ html />
                html.outputDirectory.set(project.rootDir.resolve("docs/api/0.x"))
                html.includes.from(project.layout.projectDirectory.file("README.md"))
}
}
}
}
```

## **Configure Dokka plugins** 

Configuring built-in Dokka plugins with JSON is deprecated in favor of a type-safe DSL. This change improves compatibility with Gradle's incremental build system and improves task input tracking. 

Configuration in DGP v1: 

788 

In DGP v1, Dokka plugins were configured manually using JSON. This approach caused issues with registering task inputs for Gradle up-to-date checks. 

Here is an example of the deprecated JSON-based configuration for the Dokka Versioning plugin: 

```
tasks.dokkaHtmlMultiModule{
    pluginsMapConfiguration.set(
mapOf(
"org.jetbrains.dokka.versioning.VersioningPlugin"to"""
                { "version": "1.2", "olderVersionsDir": "$projectDir/dokka-docs" }
                """.trimIndent()
)
)
}
```

## Configuration in DGP v2: 

In DGP v2, Dokka plugins are configured using type-safe DSL. To configure Dokka plugins in a type-safe way, use the `pluginsConfiguration{}` block: 

```
dokka {
    pluginsConfiguration {
        versioning {
            version.set("1.2")
            olderVersionsDir.set(projectDir.resolve("dokka-docs"))
}
}
}
```

For an example of the DGP v2 configuration, see the Dokka's versioning plugin. 

DGP v2 allows you to extend its functionality by configuring custom plugins. Custom plugins enable additional processing or modifications to the documentation generation process. 

## **Share Dokka configuration across subprojects** 

DPG v2 moves away from using `subprojects {}` or `allprojects {}` to share configuration across subprojects. In future Gradle versions, using these approaches will lead to errors. 

Follow the steps below to properly share Dokka configuration in multi-module projects with existing convention plugins or without convention plugins. 

After sharing the Dokka configuration, you can aggregate the documentation from multiple subprojects into a - single output. For more information, see Update documentation aggregation in multi module projects. 

## For a multi-module project example, see the Dokka GitHub repository. 

## **Multi-module projects without convention plugins** 

If your project doesn't use convention plugins, you can still share Dokka configurations by directly configuring each subproject. This involves manually setting up the shared configuration in each subproject's 

`build.gradle.kts` file. While this approach is less centralized, it avoids the need for additional setups like convention plugins. 

789 

Otherwise, if your project uses convention plugins, you can also share the Dokka configuration in multi-module projects by creating a convention plugin in the `buildSrc` directory, and then applying the plugin to your subprojects. 

## Set up the buildSrc directory 

1. In your project root, create a `buildSrc` directory containing two files: 

   - `settings.gradle.kts` 

   - `build.gradle.kts` 

2. In the `buildSrc/settings.gradle.kts` file, add the following snippet: 

```
rootProject.name ="buildSrc"
```

3. In the `buildSrc/build.gradle.kts` file, add the following snippet: 

```
plugins {
    `kotlin-dsl`
}
repositories {
mavenCentral()
gradlePluginPortal()
}
dependencies {
implementation("org.jetbrains.dokka:dokka-gradle-plugin:2.2.0")
}
```

## Set up the Dokka convention plugin 

After setting up the `buildSrc` directory: 

1. Create a `buildSrc/src/main/kotlin/dokka-convention.gradle.kts` file to host the convention plugin. 

2. In the `dokka-convention.gradle.kts` file, add the following snippet: 

```
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka")
}
dokka {
// The shared configuration goes here
}
```

You need to add the shared Dokka configuration common to all subprojects within the `dokka {}` block. Also, you don't need to specify a Dokka version. The version is already set in the `buildSrc/build.gradle.kts` file. 

## Apply the convention plugin to your subprojects 

Apply the Dokka convention plugin across your subprojects by adding it to each subproject's `build.gradle.kts` file: 

```
plugins {
id("dokka-convention")
}
```

790 

## **Multi-module projects with convention plugins** 

If you already have convention plugins, create a dedicated Dokka convention plugin following Gradle's documentation. 

Then, follow the steps to set up the Dokka convention plugin and apply it across your subprojects. 

## **Update documentation aggregation in multi-module projects** 

Dokka can aggregate the documentation from multiple subprojects into a single output or publication. 

As explained, apply the Dokka plugin to all documentable subprojects before aggregating the documentation. 

Aggregation in DGP v2 uses the `dependencies {}` block instead of tasks and can be added in any `build.gradle.kts` file. 

In DGP v1, aggregation was implicitly created in the root project. To replicate this behavior in DGP v2, add the `dependencies {}` block in the `build.gradle.kts` file of the root project. 

Aggregation in DGP v1: 

```
tasks.dokkaHtmlMultiModule{
// //.
}
```

Aggregation in DGP v2: 

```
dependencies {
dokka(project(":some-subproject:"))
dokka(project(":another-subproject:"))
}
```

## **Change directory of aggregated documentation** 

When DGP aggregates subprojects, each subproject has its own subdirectory within the aggregated documentation. 

In DGP v2, the aggregation mechanism has been updated to better align with Gradle conventions. DGP v2 now preserves the full subproject directory to prevent conflicts when aggregating documentation in any location. 

Aggregation directory in DGP v1: 

In DGP v1, aggregated documentation was placed in a collapsed directory structure. For example, given a project with an aggregation in `:turbo-lib` and a nested subproject `:turbo-lib:maths` , the generated documentation was placed under: 

## `turbo-lib/build/dokka/html/maths/` 

Aggregation directory in DGP v2: 

DGP v2 ensures each subproject has a unique directory by retaining the full project structure. The same aggregated documentation now follows this structure: 

## `turbo-lib/build/dokka/html/turbo-lib/maths/` 

This change prevents subprojects with the same name from clashing. However, since the directory structure has changed, external links may become outdated, potentially causing `404` errors. 

791 

## **Revert to the DGP v1 directory behavior** 

If your project depends on the directory structure used in DGP v1, you can revert this behavior by manually specifying the subproject directory. Add the following configuration to the `build.gradle.kts` file of each subproject: 

```
// /turbo-lib/maths/build.gradle.kts
```

```
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka")
}
dokka {
// Overrides the subproject directory to match the V1 structure
    modulePath.set("maths")
}
```

## **Generate documentation with the updated task** 

DGP v2 has renamed the Gradle tasks that generate the API documentation. 

Task in DGP v1: 

```
./gradlew dokkaHtml
```

```
// or
./gradlew dokkaHtmlMultiModule
```

Task in DGP v2: 

```
./gradlew :dokkaGenerate
```

The `dokkaGenerate` task generates the API documentation in the `build/dokka/` directory. 

In the DGP v2 version, the `dokkaGenerate` task name works for both single and multi-module projects. You can use different tasks to generate output in HTML, Javadoc or both HTML and Javadoc. For more information, see Select documentation output format. 

## **Select documentation output format** 

The Javadoc output format is in Alpha. You may find bugs and experience migration issues when using it. Successful integration with tools that accept Javadoc as input is not guaranteed. Use it at your own risk. 

The default output format for DGP v2 is HTML. However, you can choose to generate the API documentation in HTML, Javadoc, or both formats at the same time: 

1. Place the corresponding plugin `id` in the `plugins {}` block of your project's `build.gradle.kts` file: 

792 

```
plugins {
// Generates HTML documentation
id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.2.0"
// Generates Javadoc documentation
id("org.jetbrains.dokka-javadoc") version "2.2.0"
// Keeping both plugin IDs generates both formats
}
```

2. Run the corresponding Gradle task. 

Here is a list of the plugin `id` and Gradle task that correspond to each format: 

**HTML Javadoc Both** Plugin `id("org.jetbrains.dokka") id("org.jetbrains.dokka-` Use both HTML and `id javadoc")` Javadoc plugins Gradle `./gradlew ./gradlew ./gradlew` task `:dokkaGeneratePublicationHtm :dokkaGeneratePublicationJavado :dokkaGenerate l c` 

The `dokkaGenerate` task generates documentation in all available formats based on the applied plugins. If both the HTML and Javadoc plugins are applied, you can choose to generate only HTML by running the `dokkaGeneratePublicationHtml` task, or only Javadoc by running the 

`dokkaGeneratePublicationJavadoc` task. 

If you're using IntelliJ IDEA, you may see the `dokkaGenerateHtml` Gradle task. This task is simply an alias of `dokkaGeneratePublicationHtml` . Both tasks perform exactly the same operation. 

## **Address deprecations and removals** 

- **Output format support:** DGP v2 only supports HTML and Javadoc output. Experimental formats like Markdown and Jekyll are no longer supported. 

- **Collector task:** `DokkaCollectorTask` has been removed. Now, you need to generate the documentation separately for each subproject and then aggregate the documentation if necessary. 

## **Finalize your migration** 

After you've migrated your project, perform these steps to wrap up and improve performance. 

## **Set the opt-in flag** 

After successful migration, set the following opt-in flag without helpers in the project's `gradle.properties` file: 

```
org.jetbrains.dokka.experimental.gradle.pluginMode=V2Enabled
```

793 

If you removed references to Gradle tasks from DGP v1 that are no longer available in DGP v2, you shouldn't see compilation errors related to it. 

## **Enable build cache and configuration cache** 

DGP v2 now supports Gradle build cache and configuration cache, improving build performance. 

- To enable build cache, follow instructions in the Gradle build cache documentation. 

- To enable configuration cache, follow instructions in the Gradle configuration cache documentation. 

## **What's next** 

- Explore more DGP v2 project examples. 

- Get started with Dokka. 

- Learn more about Dokka plugins. 

## **Maven** 

To generate documentation for a Maven-based project, you can use the Maven plugin for Dokka. 

Compared to the Gradle plugin for Dokka, the Maven plugin has only basic features and does not provide support for multi-module builds. 

You can play around with Dokka and see how it can be configured for a Maven project by visiting our Maven example project. 

## **Apply Dokka** 

To apply Dokka, you need to add `dokka-maven-plugin` to the `plugins` section of your POM file: 

```
<build>
<plugins>
<plugin>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId>
<artifactId>dokka-maven-plugin//artifactId>
<version>2.2.0//version>
<executions>
<execution>
<phase>pre-site//phase>
<goals>
<goal>dokka//goal>
//goals>
//execution>
//executions>
//plugin>
//plugins>
//build>
```

794 

## **Generate documentation** 

The following goals are provided by the Maven plugin: 

**Goal Description** `dokka:dokka` Generates documentation with Dokka plugins applied. HTML format by default. 

## **Experimental** 

**Goal Description** 

`dokka:javadoc` Generates documentation in Javadoc format. `dokka:javadocJar` Generates a `javadoc.jar` file that contains documentation in Javadoc format. 

## **Other output formats** 

By default, the Maven plugin for Dokka builds documentation in HTML output format. 

All other output formats are implemented as Dokka plugins. In order to generate documentation in the desired format, you have to add it as a Dokka plugin to the configuration. 

For example, to use the experimental GFM format, you have to add `gfm-plugin` artifact: 

```
<plugin>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId>
<artifactId>dokka-maven-plugin//artifactId>
    //.
<configuration>
<dokkaPlugins>
<plugin>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId>
<artifactId>gfm-plugin//artifactId>
<version>2.2.0//version>
//plugin>
//dokkaPlugins>
//configuration>
//plugin>
```

With this configuration, running the `dokka:dokka` goal produces documentation in GFM format. 

To learn more about Dokka plugins, see Dokka plugins. 

## **Build javadoc.jar** 

If you want to publish your library to a repository, you may need to provide a `javadoc.jar` file that contains API reference documentation of your library. 

For example, if you want to publish to Maven Central, you must supply a `javadoc.jar` alongside your project. However, not all repositories have that rule. 

795 

Unlike the Gradle plugin for Dokka, the Maven plugin comes with a ready-to-use `dokka:javadocJar` goal. By default, it generates documentation in Javadoc output format in the `target` folder. 

If you are not satisfied with the built-in goal or want to customize the output (for example, you want to generate documentation in HTML format instead of Javadoc), similar behavior can be achieved by adding the Maven JAR plugin with the following configuration: 

```
<plugin>
<groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins//groupId>
<artifactId>maven-jar-plugin//artifactId>
<version>3.3.0//version>
<executions>
<execution>
<goals>
<goal>test-jar//goal>
//goals>
//execution>
<execution>
<id>dokka-jar//id>
<phase>package//phase>
<goals>
<goal>jar//goal>
//goals>
<configuration>
<classifier>dokka//classifier>
<classesDirectory>${project.build.directory}/dokka//classesDirectory>
<skipIfEmpty>true//skipIfEmpty>
//configuration>
//execution>
//executions>
//plugin>
```

The documentation and the `.jar` archive for it are then generated by running `dokka:dokka` and `jar:jar@dokka-jar` goals: 

```
mvn dokka:dokka jar:jar@dokka-jar
```

If you publish your library to Maven Central, you can use services like javadoc.io to host your library's API documentation for free and without any setup. It takes documentation pages straight from the `javadoc.jar` . It works well with the HTML format as demonstrated in this example. 

## **Configuration example** 

Maven's plugin configuration block can be used to configure Dokka. 

Here is an example of a basic configuration that only changes the output location of your documentation: 

```
<plugin>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId>
<artifactId>dokka-maven-plugin//artifactId>
    //.
<configuration>
<outputDir>${project.basedir}/target/documentation/dokka//outputDir>
//configuration>
//plugin>
```

796 

## **Configuration options** 

Dokka has many configuration options to tailor your and your reader's experience. 

Below are some examples and detailed descriptions for each configuration section. You can also find an example with all configuration options applied at the bottom of the page. 

797 

## **General configuration** 

```
<plugin>
```

```
<groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId>
<artifactId>dokka-maven-plugin//artifactId>
///-  //.  //>
```

```
<configuration>
<skip>false//skip>
<moduleName>${project.artifactId}//moduleName>
<outputDir>${project.basedir}/target/documentation//outputDir>
<failOnWarning>false//failOnWarning>
<suppressObviousFunctions>true//suppressObviousFunctions>
<suppressInheritedMembers>false//suppressInheritedMembers>
<offlineMode>false//offlineMode>
<sourceDirectories>
<dir>${project.basedir}/src//dir>
//sourceDirectories>
<documentedVisibilities>
<visibility>PUBLIC//visibility>
<visibility>PROTECTED//visibility>
//documentedVisibilities>
<reportUndocumented>false//reportUndocumented>
<skipDeprecated>false//skipDeprecated>
<skipEmptyPackages>true//skipEmptyPackages>
<suppressedFiles>
<file>/path/to/dir//file>
<file>/path/to/file//file>
//suppressedFiles>
<suppressAnnotatedWith>
<annotation>com.example.SuppressMe//annotation>
//suppressAnnotatedWith>
<jdkVersion>8//jdkVersion>
<languageVersion>1.7//languageVersion>
<apiVersion>1.7//apiVersion>
<noStdlibLink>false//noStdlibLink>
<noJdkLink>false//noJdkLink>
<includes>
<include>packages.md//include>
<include>extra.md//include>
//includes>
<classpath>${project.compileClasspathElements}//classpath>
<samples>
<dir>${project.basedir}/samples//dir>
//samples>
<sourceLinks>
///- Separate section //>
//sourceLinks>
<externalDocumentationLinks>
///- Separate section //>
//externalDocumentationLinks>
<perPackageOptions>
///- Separate section //>
//perPackageOptions>
//configuration>
//plugin>
```

## skip 

Whether to skip documentation generation. 

Default: `false` 

## moduleName 

The display name used to refer to the project/module. It's used for the table of contents, navigation, logging, etc. 

798 

Default: `{project.artifactId}` 

## outputDir 

The directory to where documentation is generated, regardless of format. 

Default: `{project.basedir}/target/dokka` 

## failOnWarning 

Whether to fail documentation generation if Dokka has emitted a warning or an error. The process waits until all errors and warnings have been emitted first. 

This setting works well with `reportUndocumented` . 

Default: `false` 

## suppressObviousFunctions 

Whether to suppress obvious functions. 

A function is considered to be obvious if it is: 

- Inherited from `kotlin.Any` , `Kotlin.Enum` , `java.lang.Object` or `java.lang.Enum` , such as `equals` , `hashCode` , `toString` . 

- Synthetic (generated by the compiler) and does not have any documentation, such as `dataClass.componentN` or `dataClass.copy` . 

Default: `true` 

## suppressInheritedMembers 

Whether to suppress inherited members that aren't explicitly overridden in a given class. 

Note: This can suppress functions such as `equals` / `hashCode` / `toString` , but cannot suppress synthetic functions such as `dataClass.componentN` and `dataClass.copy` . Use `suppressObviousFunctions` for that. 

Default: `false` 

## offlineMode 

Whether to resolve remote files/links over your network. 

This includes package-lists used for generating external documentation links. For example, to make classes from the standard library clickable. 

Setting this to `true` can significantly speed up build times in certain cases, but can also worsen documentation quality and user experience. For example, by not resolving class/member links from your dependencies, including the standard library. 

Note: You can cache fetched files locally and provide them to Dokka as local paths. See 

`externalDocumentationLinks` section. 

Default: `false` 

## sourceDirectories 

The source code roots to be analyzed and documented. Acceptable inputs are directories and individual `.kt` / `.java` files. 

Default: `{project.compileSourceRoots}` 

## documentedVisibilities 

The set of visibility modifiers that should be documented. 

This can be used if you want to document `protected` / `internal` / `private` declarations, as well as if you want to exclude `public` declarations and only document internal API. 

799 

Can be configured on per-package basis. 

## Default: `PUBLIC` 

## reportUndocumented 

Whether to emit warnings about visible undocumented declarations, that is declarations without KDocs after they have been filtered by `documentedVisibilities` and other filters. 

This setting works well with `failOnWarning` . 

This can be overridden at package level. 

Default: `false` 

## skipDeprecated 

Whether to document declarations annotated with `@Deprecated` . 

This can be overridden at package level. 

Default: `false` 

## skipEmptyPackages 

Whether to skip packages that contain no visible declarations after various filters have been applied. 

For example, if `skipDeprecated` is set to `true` and your package contains only deprecated declarations, it is considered to be empty. 

Default: `true` 

## suppressedFiles 

The directories or individual files that should be suppressed, meaning that declarations from them are not documented. 

## suppressAnnotatedWith 

A list of annotation fully qualified names (FQNs) to suppress declarations annotated with. 

Any declaration annotated with one of these annotations is excluded from the generated documentation. 

## jdkVersion 

The JDK version to use when generating external documentation links for Java types. 

For example, if you use `java.util.UUID` in some public declaration signature, and this option is set to `8` , Dokka generates an external documentation link to JDK 8 Javadocs for it. 

Default: JDK 8 

## languageVersion 

The Kotlin language version used for setting up analysis and @sample environment. 

By default, the latest language version available to Dokka's embedded compiler is used. 

## apiVersion 

The Kotlin API version used for setting up analysis and @sample environment. 

By default, it is deduced from `languageVersion` . 

## noStdlibLink 

Whether to generate external documentation links that lead to the API reference documentation of Kotlin's standard library. 

Note: Links are generated when `noStdLibLink` is set to `false` . 

Default: `false` 

## noJdkLink 

800 

