## **Support for default parameters in abstract composable functions** 

You can now add default parameters to abstract composable functions. 

Previously, the Compose compiler would report an error when attempting to do this even though it is valid Kotlin code. We've now added support for this in the Compose compiler, and the restriction has been removed. This is especially useful for including default `Modifier` values: 

```
abstractclass Composables {
@Composable
abstractfunComposable(modifier: Modifier = Modifier)
}
```

Default parameters for open composable functions are still restricted in 2.0.20. This restriction will be addressed in future releases. 

## **Standard library** 

The standard library now supports universally unique identifiers as an Experimental feature and includes some changes to Base64 decoding. 

## **Support for UUIDs in the common Kotlin standard library** 

This feature is Experimental. To opt in, use the `@ExperimentalUuidApi` annotation or the compiler option `-opt-in=kotlin.uuid.ExperimentalUuidApi` . 

Kotlin 2.0.20 introduces a class for representing UUIDs (universally unique identifiers) in the common Kotlin standard library to address the challenge of uniquely identifying items. 

Additionally, this feature provides APIs for the following UUID-related operations: 

- 

   - Generating UUIDs. 

- Parsing UUIDs from and formatting them to their string representations. 

- Creating UUIDs from specified 128-bit values. 

- Accessing the 128 bits of a UUID. 

The following code example demonstrates these operations: 

1801 

```
// Constructs a byte array for UUID creation
val byteArray =byteArrayOf(
0x55,0x0E,0x84.toByte(),0x00,0xE2.toByte(),0x9B.toByte(),0x41,0xD4.toByte(),
0xA7.toByte(),0x16,0x44,0x66,0x55,0x44,0x00,0x00
)
val uuid1 = Uuid.fromByteArray(byteArray)
val uuid2 = Uuid.fromULongs(0x550E8400E29B41D4uL, 0xA716446655440000uL)
val uuid3 = Uuid.parse("550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000")
println(uuid1)
// 550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000
println(uuid1 /= uuid2)
// true
println(uuid2 /= uuid3)
// true
// Accesses UUID bits
val version = uuid1.toLongs{ mostSignificantBits, _ />
((mostSignificantBits shr12)and0xF).toInt()
}
println(version)
// 4
// Generates a random UUID
val randomUuid = Uuid.random()
println(uuid1 /= randomUuid)
// false
```

To maintain compatibility with APIs that use `java.util.UUID` , there are two extension functions in Kotlin/JVM for converting between `java.util.UUID` and `kotlin.uuid.Uuid` : `.toJavaUuid()` and `.toKotlinUuid()` . For example: 

```
val kotlinUuid = Uuid.parseHex("550e8400e29b41d4a716446655440000")
// Converts Kotlin UUID to java.util.UUID
val javaUuid = kotlinUuid.toJavaUuid()
```

```
val javaUuid = java.util.UUID.fromString("550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000")
// Converts Java UUID to kotlin.uuid.Uuid
val kotlinUuid = javaUuid.toKotlinUuid()
```

This feature and the provided APIs simplify multiplatform software development by allowing code sharing among multiple platforms. UUIDs are also ideal in environments where generating unique identifiers is difficult. 

Some example use cases involving UUIDs include: 

- Assigning unique IDs to database records. 

- Generating web session identifiers. 

- Any scenario requiring unique identification or tracking. 

## **Support for minLength in HexFormat** 

- The `HexFormat` class and its properties are Experimental. To opt in, use the `@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi::class)` annotation or the compiler option `-opt-` 

- `in=kotlin.ExperimentalStdlibApi` . 

1802 

Kotlin 2.0.20 adds a new `minLength` property to the `NumberHexFormat` class, accessed through `HexFormat.number` . This property lets you specify the minimum number of digits in hexadecimal representations 

of numeric values, enabling padding with zeros to meet the required length. Additionally, leading zeros can be trimmed using the `removeLeadingZeros` property: 

```
funmain(){
println(93.toHexString(HexFormat {
        number.minLength =4
        number.removeLeadingZeros =true
}))
// "005d"
}
```

The `minLength` property does not affect parsing. However, parsing now allows hex strings to have more digits than the type's width if the extra leading digits are zeros. 

## **Changes to the Base64's decoder behavior** 

The `Base64` class and its related features are Experimental. To opt in, use the `@OptIn(ExperimentalEncodingApi::class)` annotation or the compiler option `-optin=kotlin.io.encoding.ExperimentalEncodingApi` . 

Two changes were introduced to the Base64 decoder's behavior in Kotlin 2.0.20: 

- The Base64 decoder now requires padding 

- 

- A `withPadding` function has been added for padding configuration 

## **The Base64 decoder now requires padding** 

The Base64 encoder now adds padding by default, and the decoder requires padding and prohibits non-zero pad bits when decoding. 

## **withPadding function for padding configuration** 

A new `.withPadding()` function has been introduced to give users control over the padding behavior of Base64 encoding and decoding: 

```
val base64 = Base64.UrlSafe.withPadding(Base64.PaddingOption.ABSENT_OPTIONAL)
```

This function enables the creation of `Base64` instances with different padding options: 

`PaddingOption` On encode On decode `PRESENT` Add padding Padding is required `ABSENT` Omit padding No padding allowed `PRESENT_OPTIONAL` Add padding Padding is optional 

1803 

On encode 

On decode 

```
PaddingOption
```

## `ABSENT_OPTIONAL` Omit padding Padding is optional 

You can create `Base64` instances with different padding options and use them to encode and decode data: 

```
import kotlin.io.encoding.Base64
import kotlin.io.encoding.ExperimentalEncodingApi
```

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalEncodingApi/:class)
funmain(){
```

```
// Example data to encode
valdata="fooba".toByteArray()
```

```
// Creates a Base64 instance with URL-safe alphabet and PRESENT padding
val base64Present = Base64.UrlSafe.withPadding(Base64.PaddingOption.PRESENT)
val encodedDataPresent = base64Present.encode(data)
println("Encoded data with PRESENT padding: $encodedDataPresent")
// Encoded data with PRESENT padding: Zm9vYmE=
```

```
// Creates a Base64 instance with URL-safe alphabet and ABSENT padding
val base64Absent = Base64.UrlSafe.withPadding(Base64.PaddingOption.ABSENT)
val encodedDataAbsent = base64Absent.encode(data)
println("Encoded data with ABSENT padding: $encodedDataAbsent")
// Encoded data with ABSENT padding: Zm9vYmE
```

```
// Decodes the data back
val decodedDataPresent = base64Present.decode(encodedDataPresent)
println("Decoded data with PRESENT padding: ${String(decodedDataPresent)}")
// Decoded data with PRESENT padding: fooba
```

```
val decodedDataAbsent = base64Absent.decode(encodedDataAbsent)
println("Decoded data with ABSENT padding: ${String(decodedDataAbsent)}")
// Decoded data with ABSENT padding: fooba
```

```
}
```

## **Documentation updates** 

The Kotlin documentation has received some notable changes: 

- 

   - Improved Standard input page - Learn how to use Java Scanner and `readln()` . 

- Improved K2 compiler migration guide - Learn about performance improvements, compatibility with Kotlin libraries and what to do with your custom compiler plugins. 

- 

   - Improved Exceptions page - Learn about exceptions, how to throw and catch them. 

- 

   - Improved Test code using JUnit in JVM - tutorial - Learn how to create tests using JUnit. 

- Improved Interoperability with Swift/Objective-C page - Learn how to use Kotlin declarations in Swift/Objective-C code and Objective-C declarations in Kotlin code. 

- Improved Swift package export setup page - Learn how to set up Kotlin/Native output that can be consumed by a Swift package manager dependency. 

1804 

## **Install Kotlin 2.0.20** 

Starting from IntelliJ IDEA 2023.3 and Android Studio Iguana (2023.2.1) Canary 15, the Kotlin plugin is distributed as a bundled plugin included in your IDE. This means that you can't install the plugin from JetBrains Marketplace anymore. 

To update to the new Kotlin version, change the Kotlin version to 2.0.20 in your build scripts. 

## **What's new in Kotlin 2.0.0** 

## Released: May 21, 2024 

The Kotlin 2.0.0 release is out and the new Kotlin K2 compiler is Stable! Additionally, here are some other highlights: 

- 

   - New Compose compiler Gradle plugin 

- 

   - Generation of lambda functions using invokedynamic 

- 

   - The kotlinx-metadata-jvm library is now Stable 

- 

   - Monitoring GC performance in Kotlin/Native with signposts on Apple platforms 

- Resolving conflicts in Kotlin/Native with Objective-C methods 

- 

   - Support for named export in Kotlin/Wasm 

- 

   - Support for unsigned primitive types in functions with @JsExport in Kotlin/Wasm 

- 

   - Optimize production builds by default using Binaryen 

- 

   - New Gradle DSL for compiler options in multiplatform projects 

- 

   - Stable replacement of the enum class values generic function 

- 

## Stable AutoCloseable interface 

Kotlin 2.0 is a huge milestone for the JetBrains team. This release was the center of KotlinConf 2024. Check out the opening keynote, where we announced exciting updates and addressed the recent work on the Kotlin language: 

## **Watch video online.** 

For information about the Kotlin release cycle, see Kotlin release process. 

## **IDE support** 

The Kotlin plugins that support Kotlin 2.0.0 are bundled in the latest IntelliJ IDEA and Android Studio. You don't need to update the Kotlin plugin in your IDE. All you need to do is to change the Kotlin version to Kotlin 2.0.0 in your build scripts. 

- 

- 

- For details about IntelliJ IDEA's support for the Kotlin K2 compiler, see Support in IDEs. 

- For more details about IntelliJ IDEA's support for Kotlin, see Kotlin releases. 

1805 

## **Kotlin K2 compiler** 

The road to the K2 compiler has been a long one, but now the JetBrains team is finally ready to announce its stabilization. In Kotlin 2.0.0, the new Kotlin K2 compiler is used by default and it is Stable for all target platforms: JVM, Native, Wasm, and JS. The new compiler brings major performance improvements, speeds up new language feature development, unifies all platforms that Kotlin supports, and provides a better architecture for multiplatform projects. 

The JetBrains team has ensured the quality of the new compiler by successfully compiling 10 million lines of code from selected user and internal projects. 18,000 developers were involved in the stabilization process, testing the new K2 compiler across a total of 80,000 projects and reporting any problems they found. 

To help make the migration process to the new compiler as smooth as possible, we've created a K2 compiler migration guide. This guide explains the many benefits of the compiler, highlights any changes you might encounter, and describes how to roll back to the previous version if necessary. 

In a blog post, we explored the performance of the K2 compiler in different projects. Check it out if you'd like to see real data on how the K2 compiler performs and find instructions on how to collect performance benchmarks from your own projects. 

You can also watch this talk from KotlinConf 2024, where Michail Zarečenskij, the lead language designer, discusses the feature evolution in Kotlin and the K2 compiler: 

## **Watch video online.** 

## **Current K2 compiler limitations** 

Enabling K2 in your Gradle project comes with certain limitations that can affect projects using Gradle versions below 8.3 in the following cases: 

- Compilation of source code from `buildSrc` . 

- Compilation of Gradle plugins in included builds. 

- Compilation of other Gradle plugins if they are used in projects with Gradle versions below 8.3. 

- 

- Building Gradle plugin dependencies. 

If you encounter any of the problems mentioned above, you can take the following steps to address them: 

- Set the language version for `buildSrc` , any Gradle plugins, and their dependencies: 

```
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        languageVersion.set(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.KOTLIN_1_9)
        apiVersion.set(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.KOTLIN_1_9)
}
}
```

If you configure language and API versions for specific tasks, these values will override the values set by the `compilerOptions` extension. In this case, language and API versions should not be higher than 1.9. 

- Update the Gradle version in your project to 8.3 or later. 

1806 

## **Smart cast improvements** 

The Kotlin compiler can automatically cast an object to a type in specific cases, saving you the trouble of having to explicitly cast it yourself. This is called smart casting. The Kotlin K2 compiler now performs smart casts in even more scenarios than before. 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, we've made improvements related to smart casts in the following areas: 

- Local variables and further scopes 

- Type checks with logical `or` operator 

- Inline functions 

- Properties with function types 

- Exception handling 

- Increment and decrement operators 

## **Local variables and further scopes** 

Previously, if a variable was evaluated as not `null` within an `if` condition, the variable would be smart-cast. Information about this variable would then be shared further within the scope of the `if` block. 

However, if you declared the variable **outside** the `if` condition, no information about the variable would be available within the `if` condition, so it couldn't be smart-cast. This behavior was also seen with `when` expressions and `while` loops. 

From Kotlin 2.0.0, if you declare a variable before using it in your `if` , `when` , or `while` condition, then any information collected by the compiler about the variable will be accessible in the corresponding block for smartcasting. 

This can be useful when you want to do things like extract boolean conditions into variables. Then, you can give the variable a meaningful name, which will improve your code readability and make it possible to reuse the variable later in your code. For example: 

1807 

```
class Cat {
funpurr(){
println("Purr purr")
}
}
funpetAnimal(animal: Any){
val isCat = animal is Cat
if(isCat){
// In Kotlin 2.0.0, the compiler can access
// information about isCat, so it knows that
// animal was smart-cast to the type Cat.
// Therefore, the purr() function can be called.
// In Kotlin 1.9.20, the compiler doesn't know
// about the smart cast, so calling the purr()
// function triggers an error.
        animal.purr()
}
}
funmain(){
val kitty =Cat()
petAnimal(kitty)
// Purr purr
}
```

## **Type checks with logical or operator** 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, if you combine type checks for objects with an `or` operator ( `||` ), a smart cast is made to their closest common supertype. Before this change, a smart cast was always made to the `Any` type. 

In this case, you still had to manually check the object type afterward before you could access any of its properties or call its functions. For example: 

```
interface Status {
funsignal(){}
}
interface Ok : Status
interface Postponed : Status
interface Declined : Status
```

```
funsignalCheck(signalStatus: Any){
if(signalStatus is Postponed /| signalStatus is Declined){
// signalStatus is smart-cast to a common supertype Status
        signalStatus.signal()
// Prior to Kotlin 2.0.0, signalStatus is smart cast
// to type Any, so calling the signal() function triggered an
// Unresolved reference error. The signal() function can only
// be called successfully after another type check:
// check(signalStatus is Status)
// signalStatus.signal()
}
}
```

The common supertype is an **approximation** of a union type. Union types are not supported in Kotlin. 

1808 

## **Inline functions** 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, the K2 compiler treats inline functions differently, allowing it to determine in combination with other compiler analyses whether it's safe to smart-cast. 

Specifically, inline functions are now treated as having an implicit `callsInPlace` contract. This means that any lambda functions passed to an inline function are called in place. Since lambda functions are called in place, the compiler knows that a lambda function can't leak references to any variables contained within its function body. 

The compiler uses this knowledge along with other compiler analyses to decide whether it's safe to smart-cast any of the captured variables. For example: 

```
interface Processor {
funprocess()
}
inlinefuninlineAction(f:()/> Unit)=f()
funnextProcessor(): Processor?=null
funrunProcessor(): Processor?{
var processor: Processor?=null
    inlineAction {
// In Kotlin 2.0.0, the compiler knows that processor
// is a local variable, and inlineAction() is an inline function, so
// references to processor can't be leaked. Therefore, it's safe
// to smart-cast processor.
// If processor isn't null, processor is smart-cast
if(processor /=null){
// The compiler knows that processor isn't null, so no safe call
// is needed
            processor.process()
// In Kotlin 1.9.20, you have to perform a safe call:
// processor/.process()
}
        processor =nextProcessor()
}
return processor
}
```

## **Properties with function types** 

In previous versions of Kotlin, there was a bug that meant that class properties with a function type weren't smartcast. We fixed this behavior in Kotlin 2.0.0 and the K2 compiler. For example: 

1809 

```
classHolder(val provider:(()/> Unit)?){
funprocess(){
// In Kotlin 2.0.0, if provider isn't null, then
// provider is smart-cast
if(provider /=null){
// The compiler knows that provider isn't null
provider()
// In 1.9.20, the compiler doesn't know that provider isn't
// null, so it triggers an error:
// Reference has a nullable type '(() /> Unit)?', use explicit '/.invoke()' to make a
function-like call instead
}
}
}
```

This change also applies if you overload your `invoke` operator. For example: 

```
interface Provider {
operatorfuninvoke()
}
interface Processor :()/> String
classHolder(val provider: Provider?,val processor: Processor?){
funprocess(){
if(provider /=null){
provider()
// In 1.9.20, the compiler triggers an error:
// Reference has a nullable type 'Provider?' use explicit '/.invoke()' to make a function-
like call instead
}
}
}
```

## **Exception handling** 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, we've made improvements to exception handling so that smart cast information can be passed on to `catch` and `finally` blocks. This change makes your code safer as the compiler keeps track of whether your object has a nullable type. For example: 

1810 

```
funtestString(){
var stringInput: String?=null
// stringInput is smart-cast to String type
    stringInput =""
try{
// The compiler knows that stringInput isn't null
println(stringInput.length)
// 0
// The compiler rejects previous smart cast information for
// stringInput. Now stringInput has the String? type.
        stringInput =null
// Trigger an exception
if(2>1)throwException()
        stringInput =""
}catch(exception: Exception){
// In Kotlin 2.0.0, the compiler knows stringInput
// can be null, so stringInput stays nullable.
println(stringInput.length)
// null
// In Kotlin 1.9.20, the compiler says that a safe call isn't
// needed, but this is incorrect.
}
}
funmain(){
testString()
}
```

## **Increment and decrement operators** 

Prior to Kotlin 2.0.0, the compiler didn't understand that the type of an object can change after using an increment or decrement operator. As the compiler couldn't accurately track the object type, your code could lead to unresolved reference errors. In Kotlin 2.0.0, this has been fixed: 

1811 

```
interface Rho {
operatorfuninc(): Sigma =TODO()
}
interface Sigma : Rho {
funsigma()= Unit
}
interface Tau {
funtau()= Unit
}
funmain(input: Rho){
var unknownObject: Rho = input
```

```
// Check if unknownObject inherits from the Tau interface
// Note, it's possible that unknownObject inherits from both
// Rho and Tau interfaces.
if(unknownObject is Tau){
```

```
// Use the overloaded inc() operator from interface Rho.
// In Kotlin 2.0.0, the type of unknownObject is smart-cast to
// Sigma.
/+unknownObject
// In Kotlin 2.0.0, the compiler knows unknownObject has type
// Sigma, so the sigma() function can be called successfully.
        unknownObject.sigma()
```

```
// In Kotlin 1.9.20, the compiler doesn't perform a smart cast
// when inc() is called so the compiler still thinks that
// unknownObject has type Tau. Calling the sigma() function
// throws a compile-time error.
```

```
// In Kotlin 2.0.0, the compiler knows unknownObject has type
// Sigma, so calling the tau() function throws a compile-time
// error.
        unknownObject.tau()
// Unresolved reference 'tau'
```

```
// In Kotlin 1.9.20, since the compiler mistakenly thinks that
// unknownObject has type Tau, the tau() function can be called,
// but it throws a ClassCastException.
}
}
```

## **Kotlin Multiplatform improvements** 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, we've made improvements in the K2 compiler related to Kotlin Multiplatform in the following areas: 

- Separation of common and platform sources during compilation 

- 

- Different visibility levels of expected and actual declarations 

## **Separation of common and platform sources during compilation** 

Previously, the design of the Kotlin compiler prevented it from keeping common and platform source sets separate at compile time. As a consequence, common code could access platform code, which resulted in different behavior between platforms. In addition, some compiler settings and dependencies from common code used to leak into platform code. 

1812 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, our implementation of the new Kotlin K2 compiler included a redesign of the compilation scheme to ensure strict separation between common and platform source sets. This change is most noticeable when you use expected and actual functions. Previously, it was possible for a function call in your common code to resolve to a function in platform code. For example: 

## Common code 

## Platform code 

```
funfoo(x: Any)=println("common foo")// JVM
funfoo(x: Int)=println("platform foo")
funexampleFunction(){
foo(42)// JavaScript
}// There is no foo() function overload
// on the JavaScript platform
```

In this example, the common code has different behavior depending on which platform it is run on: 

- On the JVM platform, calling the `foo()` function in the common code results in the `foo()` function from the platform code being called as `platform foo` . 

- On the JavaScript platform, calling the `foo()` function in the common code results in the `foo()` function from the common code being called as `common foo` , as there is no such function available in the platform code. 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, common code doesn't have access to platform code, so both platforms successfully resolve the `foo()` function to the `foo()` function in the common code: `common foo` . 

In addition to the improved consistency of behavior across platforms, we also worked hard to fix cases where there was conflicting behavior between IntelliJ IDEA or Android Studio and the compiler. For instance, when you used expected and actual classes, the following would happen: 

Common code Platform code 

```
expectclass Identity {
funconfirmIdentity(): String
}
funcommon(){
// Before 2.0.0,
// it triggers an IDE-only error
Identity().confirmIdentity()
// RESOLUTION_TO_CLASSIFIER : Expected
class
// Identity has no default constructor.
}
```

```
actualclass Identity {
actualfunconfirmIdentity()="expect class
fun: jvm"
}
```

In this example, the expected class `Identity` has no default constructor, so it can't be called successfully in common code. Previously, an error was only reported by the IDE, but the code still compiled successfully on the JVM. However, now the compiler correctly reports an error: 

```
Expected class 'expect class Identity : Any' does not have default constructor
```

1813 

## When resolution behavior doesn't change 

We're still in the process of migrating to the new compilation scheme, so the resolution behavior is still the same when you call functions that aren't within the same source set. You'll notice this difference mainly when you use overloads from a multiplatform library in your common code. 

Suppose you have a library, which has two `whichFun()` functions with different signatures: 

```
// Example library
// MODULE: common
funwhichFun(x: Any)=println("common function")
// MODULE: JVM
funwhichFun(x: Int)=println("platform function")
```

If you call the `whichFun()` function in your common code, the function that has the most relevant argument type in the library is resolved: 

```
// A project that uses the example library for the JVM target
// MODULE: common
funmain(){
whichFun(2)
// platform function
}
```

In comparison, if you declare the overloads for `whichFun()` within the same source set, the function from the common code will be resolved because your code doesn't have access to the platform-specific version: 

```
// Example library isn't used
// MODULE: common
funwhichFun(x: Any)=println("common function")
funmain(){
whichFun(2)
// common function
}
// MODULE: JVM
funwhichFun(x: Int)=println("platform function")
```

Similar to multiplatform libraries, since the `commonTest` module is in a separate source set, it also still has access to platform-specific code. Therefore, the resolution of calls to functions in the `commonTest` module exhibits the same behavior as in the old compilation scheme. 

In the future, these remaining cases will be more consistent with the new compilation scheme. 

## **Different visibility levels of expected and actual declarations** 

Before Kotlin 2.0.0, if you used expected and actual declarations in your Kotlin Multiplatform project, they had to have the same visibility level. Kotlin 2.0.0 now also supports different visibility levels but **only** if the actual declaration is more permissive than the expected declaration. For example: 

```
expectinternalclass Attribute // Visibility is internal
actualclass Attribute          // Visibility is public by default,
// which is more permissive
```

1814 

Similarly, if you are using a type alias in your actual declaration, the visibility of the **underlying type** should be the same or more permissive than the expected declaration. For example: 

```
expectinternalclass Attribute                 // Visibility is internal
internalactualtypealias Attribute = Expanded
class Expanded                                  // Visibility is public by default,
// which is more permissive
```

## **Compiler plugins support** 

Currently, the Kotlin K2 compiler supports the following Kotlin compiler plugins: 

- `all-open` 

- 

## AtomicFU 

- 

   - `jvm-abi-gen` 

- 

   - `-` 

   - `js plain objects` 

- 

## kapt 

- 

## Lombok 

- `no-arg` 

- 

## Parcelize 

- 

   - SAM with receiver 

- 

## serialization 

- 

## Power-assert 

In addition, the Kotlin K2 compiler supports: 

- The Jetpack Compose compiler plugin 2.0.0, which was moved into the Kotlin repository. 

- 

- The Kotlin Symbol Processing (KSP) plugin since KSP2. 

If you use any additional compiler plugins, check their documentation to see if they are compatible with K2. 

## **Experimental Kotlin Power-assert compiler plugin** 

The Kotlin Power-assert plugin is Experimental. It may be changed at any time. 

Kotlin 2.0.0 introduces an experimental Power-assert compiler plugin. This plugin improves the experience of writing tests by including contextual information in failure messages, making debugging easier and more efficient. 

Developers often need to use complex assertion libraries to write effective tests. The Power-assert plugin simplifies this process by automatically generating failure messages that include intermediate values of the assertion expression. This helps developers quickly understand why a test failed. 

1815 

When an assertion fails in a test, the improved error message shows the values of all variables and subexpressions within the assertion, making it clear which part of the condition caused the failure. This is particularly useful for complex assertions where multiple conditions are checked. 

To enable the plugin in your project, configure it in your `build.gradle(.kts)` file: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
plugins {
kotlin("multiplatform") version "2.0.0"
kotlin("plugin.power-assert") version "2.0.0"
}
powerAssert {
    functions =listOf("kotlin.assert","kotlin.test.assertTrue")
}
```

**Groovy** 

```
plugins {
    id 'org.jetbrains.kotlin.multiplatform' version '2.0.0'
    id 'org.jetbrains.kotlin.plugin.power-assert' version '2.0.0'
}
powerAssert {
    functions =["kotlin.assert","kotlin.test.assertTrue"]
}
```

Learn more about the Kotlin Power-assert plugin in the documentation. 

## **How to enable the Kotlin K2 compiler** 

Starting with Kotlin 2.0.0, the Kotlin K2 compiler is enabled by default. No additional actions are required. 

## **Try the Kotlin K2 compiler in Kotlin Playground** 

Kotlin Playground supports the 2.0.0 release. Check it out! 

## **Support in IDEs** 

By default, IntelliJ IDEA and Android Studio still use the previous compiler for code analysis, code completion, highlighting, and other IDE-related features. To get the full Kotlin 2.0 experience in your IDE, enable K2 mode. 

In your IDE, go to **Settings** | **Languages & Frameworks** | **Kotlin** and select the **Enable K2 mode** option. The IDE will analyze your code using its K2 mode. 

**==> picture [150 x 44] intentionally omitted <==**

Enable K2 mode 

1816 

After enabling K2 mode, you may notice differences in IDE analysis due to changes in compiler behavior. Learn how the new K2 compiler differs from the previous one in our migration guide. 

- Learn more about K2 mode in our blog. 

- We are actively collecting feedback about K2 mode, so please share your thoughts in our public Slack channel. 

## **Leave your feedback on the new K2 compiler** 

We would appreciate any feedback you may have! 

- Report any problems you face with the new K2 compiler in our issue tracker. 

- Enable the "Send usage statistics" option to allow JetBrains to collect anonymous data about K2 usage. 

## **Kotlin/JVM** 

Starting with version 2.0.0, the compiler can generate classes containing Java 22 bytecode. This version also brings the following changes: 

- Generation of lambda functions using invokedynamic 

- The kotlinx-metadata-jvm library is now Stable 

## **Generation of lambda functions using invokedynamic** 

Kotlin 2.0.0 introduces a new default method for generating lambda functions using `invokedynamic` . This change reduces the binary sizes of applications compared to the traditional anonymous class generation. 

Since the first version, Kotlin has generated lambdas as anonymous classes. However, starting from Kotlin 1.5.0, the option for `invokedynamic` generation has been available by using the `-Xlambdas=indy` compiler option. In Kotlin 2.0.0, `invokedynamic` has become the default method for lambda generation. This method produces lighter binaries and aligns Kotlin with JVM optimizations, ensuring applications benefit from ongoing and future improvements in JVM performance. 

Currently, it has three limitations compared to ordinary lambda compilation: 

- A lambda compiled into `invokedynamic` is not serializable. 

- Experimental `reflect()` API does not support lambdas generated by `invokedynamic` . 

- Calling `.toString()` on such a lambda produces a less readable string representation: 

```
funmain(){
println({})
// With Kotlin 1.9.24 and reflection, returns
// () /> kotlin.Unit
// With Kotlin 2.0.0, returns
// FileKt$$Lambda$13/0x00007f88a0004608@506e1b77
}
```

To retain the legacy behavior of generating lambda functions, you can either: 

- Annotate specific lambdas with `@JvmSerializableLambda` . 

- Use the compiler option `-Xlambdas=class` to generate all lambdas in a module using the legacy method. 

1817 

## **The kotlinx-metadata-jvm library is Stable** 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, the `kotlinx-metadata-jvm` library became Stable. Now that the library has changed to the `kotlin` package and coordinates, you can find it as `kotlin-metadata-jvm` (without the "x"). 

Previously, the `kotlinx-metadata-jvm` library had its own publishing scheme and version. Now, we will build and publish the `kotlin-metadata-jvm` updates as part of the Kotlin release cycle, with the same backward compatibility guarantees as the Kotlin standard library. 

The `kotlin-metadata-jvm` library provides an API to read and modify metadata of binary files generated by the Kotlin/JVM compiler. 

## **Kotlin/Native** 

This version brings the following changes: 

- Monitoring GC performance with signposts 

- Resolving conflicts with Objective-C methods 

- Changed log level for compiler arguments in Kotlin/Native 

- Explicitly added standard library and platform dependencies to Kotlin/Native 

- 

- Tasks error in Gradle configuration cache 

## **Monitoring GC performance with signposts on Apple platforms** 

Previously, it was only possible to monitor the performance of Kotlin/Native's garbage collector (GC) by looking into logs. However, these logs were not integrated with Xcode Instruments, a popular toolkit for investigating issues with iOS apps' performance. 

Since Kotlin 2.0.0, GC reports pauses with signposts that are available in Instruments. Signposts allow for custom logging within your app, so now, when debugging iOS app performance, you can check if a GC pause corresponds to the application freeze. 

Learn more about GC performance analysis in the documentation. 

## **Resolving conflicts with Objective-C methods** 

Objective-C methods can have different names, but the same number and types of parameters. For example, `locationManager:didEnterRegion:` and `locationManager:didExitRegion:` . In Kotlin, these methods have the same signature, so an attempt to use them triggers a conflicting overloads error. 

Previously, you had to manually suppress conflicting overloads to avoid this compilation error. To improve Kotlin interoperability with Objective-C, the Kotlin 2.0.0 introduces the new `@ObjCSignatureOverride` annotation. 

The annotation instructs the Kotlin compiler to ignore conflicting overloads, in case several functions with the same argument types but different argument names are inherited from the Objective-C class. 

Applying this annotation is also safer than general error suppression. This annotation can only be used in the case of overriding Objective-C methods, which are supported and tested, while general suppression may hide important errors and lead to silently broken code. 

1818 

## **Changed log level for compiler arguments** 

In this release, the log level for compiler arguments in Kotlin/Native Gradle tasks, such as `compile` , `link` , and `cinterop` , has changed from `info` to `debug` . 

With `debug` as its default value, the log level is consistent with other Gradle compilation tasks and provides detailed debugging information, including all compiler arguments. 

## **Explicitly added standard library and platform dependencies to Kotlin/Native** 

Previously, the Kotlin/Native compiler resolved standard library and platform dependencies implicitly, which caused inconsistencies in the way the Kotlin Gradle plugin worked across Kotlin targets. 

Now, each Kotlin/Native Gradle compilation explicitly includes standard library and platform dependencies in its compile-time library path via the `compileDependencyFiles` compilation parameter. 

## **Tasks error in Gradle configuration cache** 

Since Kotlin 2.0.0, you may encounter a configuration cache error with messages indicating: `invocation of Task.project at execution time is unsupported` . 

This error appears in tasks such as `NativeDistributionCommonizerTask` and `KotlinNativeCompile` . 

However, this is a false-positive error. The underlying issue is the presence of tasks that are not compatible with the Gradle configuration cache, like the `publish*` task. 

This discrepancy may not be immediately apparent, as the error message suggests a different root cause. 

As the precise cause isn't explicitly stated in the error report, the Gradle team is already addressing the issue to fix reports. 

## **Kotlin/Wasm** 

Kotlin 2.0.0 improves performance and interoperability with JavaScript: 

- Optimized production builds by default using Binaryen 

- 

   - Support for named export 

- 

   - Support for unsigned primitive types in functions with `@JsExport` 

- 

   - Generation of TypeScript declaration files in Kotlin/Wasm 

- 

   - Support for catching JavaScript exceptions 

- 

   - New exception handling proposal is now supported as an option 

- 

- The `withWasm()` function is split into JS and WASI variants 

## **Optimized production builds by default using Binaryen** 

The Kotlin/Wasm toolchain now applies the Binaryen tool during production compilation to all projects, as opposed to the previous manual setup approach. By our estimations, it should improve runtime performance and reduce the binary size for your project. 

This change only affects production compilation. The development compilation process stays the same. 

1819 

## **Support for named export** 

Previously, all exported declarations from Kotlin/Wasm were imported into JavaScript using default export: 

```
//JavaScript:
import Module from"./index.mjs"
Module.add()
```

Now, you can import each Kotlin declaration marked with `@JsExport` by name: 

```
// Kotlin:
@JsExport
funadd(a: Int, b: Int)= a + b
//JavaScript:
import{ add }from"./index.mjs"
```

Named exports make it easier to share code between Kotlin and JavaScript modules. They improve readability and help you manage dependencies between modules. 

## **Support for unsigned primitive types in functions with @JsExport** 

Starting from Kotlin 2.0.0, you can use unsigned primitive types inside external declarations and functions with the `@JsExport` annotation that makes Kotlin/Wasm functions available in JavaScript code. 

This helps to mitigate the previous limitation that prevented the unsigned primitives from being used directly inside exported and external declarations. Now you can export functions with unsigned primitives as a return or parameter type and consume external declarations that return or consume unsigned primitives. 

For more information on Kotlin/Wasm interoperability with JavaScript, see the documentation. 

## **Generation of TypeScript declaration files in Kotlin/Wasm** 

Generating TypeScript declaration files in Kotlin/Wasm is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, the Kotlin/Wasm compiler is now capable of generating TypeScript definitions from any `@JsExport` declarations in your Kotlin code. These definitions can be used by IDEs and JavaScript tools to provide code autocompletion, help with type checks, and make it easier to include Kotlin code in JavaScript. 

The Kotlin/Wasm compiler collects any top-level functions marked with `@JsExport` and automatically generates TypeScript definitions in a `.d.ts` file. 

To generate TypeScript definitions, in your `build.gradle(.kts)` file in the `wasmJs {}` block, add the `generateTypeScriptDefinitions()` function: 

1820 

```
kotlin {
    wasmJs {
        binaries.executable()
        browser {
}
generateTypeScriptDefinitions()
}
}
```

## **Support for catching JavaScript exceptions** 

Previously, Kotlin/Wasm code could not catch JavaScript exceptions, making it difficult to handle errors originating from the JavaScript side of the program. 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, we have implemented support for catching JavaScript exceptions within Kotlin/Wasm. This implementation allows you to use `try-catch` blocks, with specific types like `Throwable` or `JsException` , to handle these errors properly. 

Additionally, `finally` blocks, which help execute code regardless of exceptions, also work correctly. While we're introducing support for catching JavaScript exceptions, no additional information is provided when a JavaScript exception, like a call stack, occurs. However, we are working on these implementations. 

## **New exception handling proposal is now supported as an option** 

In this release, we introduce support for the new version of WebAssembly's exception handling proposal within Kotlin/Wasm. 

This update ensures the new proposal aligns with Kotlin requirements, enabling the use of Kotlin/Wasm on virtual machines that only support the latest version of the proposal. 

Activate the new exception handling proposal by using the `-Xwasm-use-new-exception-proposal` compiler option, which is turned off by default. 

## **The withWasm() function is split into JS and WASI variants** 

The `withWasm()` function, which used to provide Wasm targets for hierarchy templates, is deprecated in favor of specialized `withWasmJs()` and `withWasmWasi()` functions. 

Now you can separate the WASI and JS targets between different groups in the tree definition. 

## **Kotlin/JS** 

Among other changes, this version brings modern JS compilation to Kotlin, supporting more features from the ES2015 standard: 

- New compilation target 

- 

## Suspend functions as ES2015 generators 

- 

## Passing arguments to the main function 

- Per-file compilation for Kotlin/JS projects 

- 

## Improved collection interoperability 

- 

## Support for createInstance() 

1821 

- Support for type-safe plain JavaScript objects 

- 

   - Support for npm package manager 

- 

   - Changes to compilation tasks 

- 

## Discontinuing legacy Kotlin/JS JAR artifacts 

## **New compilation target** 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, we're adding a new compilation target to Kotlin/JS, `es2015` . This is a new way for you to enable all the ES2015 features supported in Kotlin at once. 

You can set it up in your `build.gradle(.kts)` file like this: 

```
kotlin {
    js {
        compilerOptions {
            target.set("es2015")
}
}
}
```

The new target automatically turns on ES classes and modules and the newly supported ES generators. 

## **Suspend functions as ES2015 generators** 

This release introduces Experimental support for ES2015 generators for compiling suspend functions. 

Using generators instead of state machines should improve the final bundle size of your project. For example, the JetBrains team managed to decrease the bundle size of its Space project by 20% by using the ES2015 generators. 

Learn more about ES2015 (ECMAScript 2015, ES6) in the official documentation. 

## **Passing arguments to the main function** 

Starting with Kotlin 2.0.0, you can specify a source of your `args` for the `main()` function. This feature makes it easier to work with the command line and pass the arguments. 

To do this, define the `js {}` block with the new `passAsArgumentToMainFunction()` function, which returns an array of strings: 

```
kotlin {
    js {
        binary.executable()
passAsArgumentToMainFunction("Deno.args")
}
}
```

The function is executed at runtime. It takes the JavaScript expression and uses it as the `args: Array<String>` argument instead of the `main()` function call. 

Also, if you use the Node.js runtime, you can take advantage of a special alias. It allows you to pass `process.argv` to the `args` parameter once instead of adding it manually every time: 

1822 

```
kotlin {
    js {
        binary.executable()
        nodejs {
passProcessArgvToMainFunction()
}
}
}
```

## **Per-file compilation for Kotlin/JS projects** 

Kotlin 2.0.0 introduces a new granularity option for the Kotlin/JS project output. You can now set up a per-file compilation that generates one JavaScript file for each Kotlin file. It helps to significantly optimize the size of the final bundle and improve the loading time of the program. 

Previously, there were only two output options. The Kotlin/JS compiler could generate a single `.js` file for the whole project. However, this file might be too large and inconvenient to use. Whenever you wanted to use a function from your project, you had to include the entire JavaScript file as a dependency. Alternatively, you could configure a compilation of a separate `.js` file for each project module. This is still the default option. 

Since module files could also be too large, with Kotlin 2.0.0, we add a more granular output that generates one (or two, if the file contains exported declarations) JavaScript file per each Kotlin file. To enable the per-file compilation mode: 

1. Add the `useEsModules()` function to your build file to support ECMAScript modules: 

```
// build.gradle.kts
kotlin {
js(IR){
useEsModules()// Enables ES2015 modules
browser()
}
}
```

You can also use the new `es2015` compilation target for that. 

2. Apply the `-Xir-per-file` compiler option or update your `gradle.properties` file with: 

```
# gradle.properties
kotlin.js.ir.output.granularity=per-file // `per-module` is the default
```

## **Improved collection interoperability** 

Starting with Kotlin 2.0.0, it's possible to export declarations with a Kotlin collection type inside the signature to JavaScript (and TypeScript). This applies to `Set` , `Map` , and `List` collection types and their mutable counterparts. 

To use Kotlin collections in JavaScript, first mark the necessary declarations with `@JsExport` annotation: 

1823 

```
// Kotlin
@JsExport
dataclassUser(
val name: String,
val friends: List<User>=emptyList()
)
@JsExport
val me =User(
    name ="Me",
    friends =listOf(User(name ="Kodee"))
)
```

You can then consume them from JavaScript as regular JavaScript arrays: 

```
// JavaScript
import{ User, me, KtList }from"my-module"
const allMyFriendNames = me.friends
.asJsReadonlyArrayView()
.map(x /> x.name)// ['Kodee']
```

Unfortunately, creating Kotlin collections from JavaScript is still unavailable. We're planning to add this functionality in Kotlin 2.0.20. 

## **Support for createInstance()** 

Starting with Kotlin 2.0.0, you can use the `createInstance()` function from the Kotlin/JS target. Previously, it was only available on the JVM. 

This function from the KClass interface creates a new instance of the specified class, which is useful for getting the runtime reference to a Kotlin class. 

## **Support for type-safe plain JavaScript objects** 

- The `js-plain-objects` plugin is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. The `jsplain-objects` plugin **only** supports the K2 compiler. 

`- -` To make it easier to work with JavaScript APIs, in Kotlin 2.0.0, we provide a new plugin: `js plain objects` , which you can use to create type-safe plain JavaScript objects. The plugin checks your code for any external interfaces that have a `@JsPlainObject` annotation and adds: 

- An inline `invoke` operator function inside the companion object that you can use as a constructor. 

- A `.copy()` function that you can use to create a copy of your object while adjusting some of its properties. 

For example: 

1824 

```
import kotlinx.js.JsPlainObject
```

```
@JsPlainObject
externalinterface User {
var name: String
val age: Int
val email: String?
}
funmain(){
// Creates a JavaScript object
val user =User(name ="Name", age =10)
// Copies the object and adds an email
val copy = user.copy(age =11, email ="some@user.com")
println(JSON.stringify(user))
// { "name": "Name", "age": 10 }
println(JSON.stringify(copy))
// { "name": "Name", "age": 11, "email": "some@user.com" }
}
```

Any JavaScript objects created with this approach are safer because instead of only seeing errors at runtime, you can see them at compile time or even highlighted by your IDE. 

Consider this example, which uses a `fetch()` function to interact with a JavaScript API using external interfaces to describe the shape of the JavaScript objects: 

```
import kotlinx.js.JsPlainObject
```

```
@JsPlainObject
externalinterface FetchOptions {
val body: String?
val method: String
}
// A wrapper for Window.fetch
suspendfunfetch(url: String, options: FetchOptions?=null)=TODO("Add your custom behavior here")
// A compile-time error is triggered as "metod" is not recognized
// as method
fetch("https://google.com", options =FetchOptions(metod ="POST"))
// A compile-time error is triggered as method is required
fetch("https://google.com", options =FetchOptions(body ="SOME STRING"))
```

In comparison, if you use the `js()` function instead to create your JavaScript objects, errors are only found at runtime or aren't triggered at all: 

```
suspendfunfetch(url: String, options: FetchOptions?=null)=TODO("Add your custom behavior here")
// No error is triggered. As "metod" is not recognized, the wrong method
// (GET) is used.
fetch("https://google.com", options =js("{ metod: 'POST' }"))
// By default, the GET method is used. A runtime error is triggered as
// body shouldn't be present.
fetch("https://google.com", options =js("{ body: 'SOME STRING' }"))
// TypeError: Window.fetch: HEAD or GET Request cannot have a body
```

To use the `js-plain-objects` plugin, add the following to your `build.gradle(.kts)` file: 

1825 

## **Kotlin** 

```
plugins {
kotlin("plugin.js-plain-objects") version "2.0.0"
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
plugins {
    id "org.jetbrains.kotlin.plugin.js-plain-objects" version "2.0.0"
}
```

## **Support for npm package manager** 

Previously, it was only possible for the Kotlin Multiplatform Gradle plugin to use Yarn as a package manager to download and install npm dependencies. From Kotlin 2.0.0, you can use npm as your package manager instead. Using npm as a package manager means that you have one less tool to manage during your setup. 

For backward compatibility, Yarn is still the default package manager. To use npm as your package manager, set the following property in your `gradle.properties` file: 

```
kotlin.js.yarn =false
```

## **Changes to compilation tasks** 

Previously, the `webpack` and `distributeResources` compilation tasks both targeted the same directories. Moreover, the `distribution` task declared the `dist` as its output directory as well. This resulted in overlapping outputs and produced a compilation warning. 

So, starting with Kotlin 2.0.0, we've implemented the following changes: 

- The `webpack` task now targets a separate folder. 

- The `distributeResources` task has been completely removed. 

- The `distribution` task now has the `Copy` type and targets the `dist` folder. 

## **Discontinuing legacy Kotlin/JS JAR artifacts** 

Starting with Kotlin 2.0.0, the Kotlin distribution no longer contains legacy Kotlin/JS artifacts with the `.jar` extension. Legacy artifacts were used in the unsupported old Kotlin/JS compiler and unnecessary for the IR compiler, which uses the `klib` format. 

## **Gradle improvements** 

Kotlin 2.0.0 is fully compatible with Gradle 6.8.3 through 8.5. You can also use Gradle versions up to the latest Gradle release, but if you do, keep in mind that you might encounter deprecation warnings or some new Gradle features might not work. 

This version brings the following changes: 

- New Gradle DSL for compiler options in multiplatform projects 

1826 

- New Compose compiler Gradle plugin 

- 

   - New attribute to distinguish JVM and Android published libraries 

- Improved Gradle dependency handling for CInteropProcess in Kotlin/Native 

- 

   - Visibility changes in Gradle 

- 

   - New directory for Kotlin data in Gradle projects 

- 

   - Kotlin/Native compiler downloaded when needed 

- 

   - Deprecating old ways of defining compiler options 

- 

   - Bumped minimum AGP supported version 

- New Gradle property for trying the latest language version 

- New JSON output format for build reports 

- kapt configurations inherit annotation processors from superconfigurations 

- 

- Kotlin Gradle plugin no longer uses deprecated Gradle conventions 

## **New Gradle DSL for compiler options in multiplatform projects** 

This feature is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

Prior to Kotlin 2.0.0, configuring compiler options in a multiplatform project with Gradle was only possible at a low level, such as per task, compilation, or source set. To make it easier to configure compiler options more generally in your projects, Kotlin 2.0.0 comes with a new Gradle DSL. 

With this new DSL, you can configure compiler options at the extension level for all the targets and shared source sets like `commonMain` and at a target level for a specific target: 

```
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
// Extension-level common compiler options that are used as defaults
// for all targets and shared source sets
        allWarningsAsErrors.set(true)
}
    jvm {
        compilerOptions {
// Target-level JVM compiler options that are used as defaults
// for all compilations in this target
            noJdk.set(true)
}
}
}
```

The overall project configuration now has three layers. The highest is the extension level, then the target level and the lowest is the compilation unit (which is usually a compilation task): 

1827 

**==> picture [524 x 330] intentionally omitted <==**

## Kotlin compiler options levels 

The settings at a higher level are used as a convention (default) for a lower level: 

- The values of extension compiler options are the default for target compiler options, including shared source sets, like `commonMain` , `nativeMain` , and `commonTest` . 

- The values of target compiler options are used as the default for compilation unit (task) compiler options, for example, `compileKotlinJvm` and `compileTestKotlinJvm` tasks. 

In turn, configurations made at a lower level override related settings at a higher level: 

- 

   - Task-level compiler options override related configurations at the target or the extension level. 

- 

- Target-level compiler options override related configurations at the extension level. 

When configuring your project, keep in mind that some old ways of setting up compiler options have been deprecated. 

We encourage you to try the new DSL out in your multiplatform projects and leave feedback in YouTrack, as we plan to make this DSL the recommended approach for configuring compiler options. 

## **New Compose compiler Gradle plugin** 

The Jetpack Compose compiler, which translates composables into Kotlin code, has now been merged into the Kotlin repository. This will help transition Compose projects to Kotlin 2.0.0, as the Compose compiler will always ship simultaneously with Kotlin. This also bumps the Compose compiler version to 2.0.0. 

To use the new Compose compiler in your projects, apply the `org.jetbrains.kotlin.plugin.compose` Gradle plugin in your `build.gradle(.kts)` file and set its version equal to Kotlin 2.0.0. 

To learn more about this change and see the migration instructions, see the Compose compiler documentation. 

1828 

## **New attribute to distinguish JVM and Android-published libraries** 

Starting with Kotlin 2.0.0, the `org.gradle.jvm.environment` Gradle attribute is published by default with all Kotlin variants. 

The attribute helps distinguish JVM and Android variants of Kotlin Multiplatform libraries. It indicates that a certain library variant is better suited for a certain JVM environment. The target environment could be "android", "standard-jvm", or "no-jvm". 

Publishing this attribute should make consuming Kotlin Multiplatform libraries with JVM and Android targets more robust from non-multiplatform clients as well, such as Java-only projects. 

If necessary, you can disable attribute publication. To do that, add the following Gradle option to your `gradle.properties` file: 

```
kotlin.publishJvmEnvironmentAttribute=false
```

## **Improved Gradle dependency handling for CInteropProcess in Kotlin/Native** 

In this release, we enhanced the handling of the `defFile` property to ensure better Gradle task dependency management in Kotlin/Native projects. 

Before this update, Gradle builds could fail if the `defFile` property was designated as an output of another task that hadn't been executed yet. The workaround for this issue was to add a dependency on this task: 

```
kotlin {
macosArm64("native"){
        compilations.getByName("main"){
            cinterops {
val cinterop by creating {
                    defFileProperty.set(createDefFileTask.flatMap{ it.defFile.asFile })
                    project.tasks.named(interopProcessingTaskName).configure{
dependsOn(createDefFileTask)
}
}
}
}
}
}
```

To fix this, there is a new `RegularFileProperty` property called `definitionFile` . Now, Gradle lazily verifies the presence of the `definitionFile` property after the connected task has run later in the build process. This new approach eliminates the need for additional dependencies. 

The `CInteropProcess` task and the `CInteropSettings` class use the `definitionFile` property instead of `defFile` and `defFileProperty` : 

1829 

## **Kotlin** 

```
kotlin {
macosArm64("native"){
        compilations.getByName("main"){
            cinterops {
val cinterop by creating {
                    definitionFile.set(project.file("def-file.def"))
}
}
}
}
}
```

**Groovy** 

```
kotlin {
macosArm64("native"){
        compilations.main {
            cinterops {
                cinterop {
                    definitionFile.set(project.file("def-file.def"))
}
}
}
}
}
```

`defFile` and `defFileProperty` parameters are deprecated. 

## **Visibility changes in Gradle** 

This change impacts only Kotlin DSL users. 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, we've modified the Kotlin Gradle Plugin for better control and safety in your build scripts. Previously, certain Kotlin DSL functions and properties intended for a specific DSL context would inadvertently leak into other DSL contexts. This leakage could lead to the use of incorrect compiler options, settings being applied multiple times, and other misconfigurations: 

1830 

```
kotlin {
// Target DSL couldn't access methods and properties defined in the
// kotlin{} extension DSL
    jvm {
// Compilation DSL couldn't access methods and properties defined
// in the kotlin{} extension DSL and Kotlin jvm{} target DSL
        compilations.configureEach{
// Compilation task DSLs couldn't access methods and
// properties defined in the kotlin{} extension, Kotlin jvm{}
// target or Kotlin compilation DSL
            compileTaskProvider.configure{
// For example:
explicitApi()
// ERROR as it is defined in the kotlin{} extension DSL
                mavenPublication {}
// ERROR as it is defined in the Kotlin jvm{} target DSL
                defaultSourceSet {}
// ERROR as it is defined in the Kotlin compilation DSL
}
}
}
}
```

To fix this issue, we've added the `@KotlinGradlePluginDsl` annotation, preventing the exposure of the Kotlin Gradle plugin DSL functions and properties to levels where they are not intended to be available. The following levels are separated from each other: 

- Kotlin extension 

- Kotlin target 

- Kotlin compilation 

- Kotlin compilation task 

For the most popular cases, we've added compiler warnings with suggestions on how to fix them if your build script is configured incorrectly. For example: 

```
kotlin {
    jvm {
        sourceSets.getByName("jvmMain").dependencies{
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-coroutines-core-jvm:1.7.3")
}
}
}
```

In this case, the warning message for `sourceSets` is: 

```
[DEPRECATION] 'sourceSets: NamedDomainObjectContainer<KotlinSourceSet>' is deprecated.Accessing
'sourceSets' container on the Kotlin target level DSL is deprecated. Consider configuring 'sourceSets'
on the Kotlin extension level.
```

We would appreciate your feedback on this change! Share your comments directly to Kotlin developers in our #gradle Slack channel. Get a Slack invite. 

1831 

## **New directory for Kotlin data in Gradle projects** 

Do not commit the `.kotlin` directory to version control. For example, if you are using Git, add `.kotlin` to your project's `.gitignore` file. 

In Kotlin 1.8.20, the Kotlin Gradle plugin switched to storing its data in the Gradle project cache directory: `<project-root-directory>/.gradle/kotlin` . However, the `.gradle` directory is reserved for Gradle only, and as a result it's not future-proof. 

To solve this, as of Kotlin 2.0.0, we will store Kotlin data in your `<project-root-directory>/.kotlin` by default. We will continue to store some data in the `.gradle/kotlin` directory for backward compatibility. 

The new Gradle properties you can configure are: 

Gradle property Description `kotlin.project.persistent.dir` Configures the location where your project-level data is stored. Default: `<project-root-directory>/.kotlin kotlin.project.persistent.dir.gr` A boolean value that controls whether writing Kotlin data to the `adle.disableWrite .gradle` directory is disabled. Default: `false` 

Add these properties to the `gradle.properties` file in your projects for them to take effect. 

## **Kotlin/Native compiler downloaded when needed** 

Before Kotlin 2.0.0, if you had a Kotlin/Native target configured in the Gradle build script of your multiplatform project, Gradle would always download the Kotlin/Native compiler in the configuration phase. 

This happened even if there was no task to compile code for a Kotlin/Native target that was due to run in the execution phase. Downloading the Kotlin/Native compiler in this way was particularly inefficient for users who only wanted to check the JVM or JavaScript code in their projects. For example, to perform tests or checks with their Kotlin project as part of a CI process. 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, we changed this behavior in the Kotlin Gradle plugin so that the Kotlin/Native compiler is downloaded in the execution phase and **only** when a compilation is requested for a Kotlin/Native target. 

In turn, the Kotlin/Native compiler's dependencies are now downloaded not as a part of the compiler, but in the execution phase as well. 

If you encounter any issues with the new behavior, you can temporarily switch back to the previous behavior by adding the following Gradle property to your `gradle.properties` file: 

```
kotlin.native.toolchain.enabled=false
```

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.20-Beta, the Kotlin/Native distribution is published to Maven Central along with the CDN. 

This allowed us to change how Kotlin looks for and downloads the necessary artifacts. Instead of the CDN, by default, it now uses the Maven repositories that you specified in the `repositories {}` block of your project. 

You can temporarily switch this behavior back by setting the following Gradle property in your `gradle.properties` file: 

1832 

```
kotlin.native.distribution.downloadFromMaven=false
```

Please report any problems to our issue tracker YouTrack. Both of these Gradle properties that change the default behavior are temporary and will be removed in future releases. 

## **Deprecated old ways of defining compiler options** 

In this release, we continue to refine how you can set up compiler options. It should resolve ambiguity between different ways and make the project configuration more straightforward. 

Since Kotlin 2.0.0, the following DSLs for specifying compiler options are deprecated: 

- The `kotlinOptions` DSL from the `KotlinCompile` interface that implements all Kotlin compilation tasks. Use `KotlinCompilationTask<CompilerOptions>` instead. 

- The `compilerOptions` property with the `HasCompilerOptions` type from the `KotlinCompilation` interface. This DSL was inconsistent with other DSLs and configured the same `KotlinCommonCompilerOptions` object as `compilerOptions` inside the `KotlinCompilation.compileTaskProvider` compilation task, which was 

- confusing. 

Instead, we recommend using the `compilerOptions` property from the Kotlin compilation task: 

`kotlinCompilation.compileTaskProvider.configure { compilerOptions { . } }` For example: `kotlin { js(IR) { compilations.all { compileTaskProvider.configure { compilerOptions.freeCompilerArgs.add(` **`"-Xir-minimized-member-names=false"`** `) } } } }` 

For example: 

- The `kotlinOptions` DSL from the `KotlinCompilation` interface. 

- The `kotlinOptions` DSL from the `KotlinNativeArtifactConfig` interface, the `KotlinNativeLink` class, and the `KotlinNativeLinkArtifactTask` class. Use the `toolOptions` DSL instead. 

- The `dceOptions` DSL from the `KotlinJsDce` interface. Use the `toolOptions` DSL instead. 

For more information on how to specify compiler options in the Kotlin Gradle plugin, see How to define options. 

## **Bumped minimum supported AGP version** 

Starting with Kotlin 2.0.0, the minimum supported Android Gradle plugin version is 7.1.3. 

## **New Gradle property for trying the latest language version** 

Prior to Kotlin 2.0.0, we had the following Gradle property to try out the new K2 compiler: `kotlin.experimental.tryK2` . Now that the K2 compiler is enabled by default in Kotlin 2.0.0, we decided to evolve this property into a new form that you can use to try the latest language version in your projects: 

1833 

`kotlin.experimental.tryNext` . When you use this property in your `gradle.properties` file, the Kotlin Gradle plugin increments the language version to one above the default value for your Kotlin version. For example, in Kotlin 2.0.0, the default language version is 2.0, so the property configures language version 2.1. 

This new Gradle property produces similar metrics in build reports as before with `kotlin.experimental.tryK2` . The language version configured is included in the output. For example: 

```
##### 'kotlin.experimental.tryNext' results #####
:app:compileKotlin: 2.1 language version
:lib:compileKotlin: 2.1 language version
##### 100% (2/2) tasks have been compiled with Kotlin 2.1 #####
```

To learn more about how to enable build reports and their content, see Build reports. 

## **New JSON output format for build reports** 

In Kotlin 1.7.0, we introduced build reports to help track compiler performance. Over time, we've added more metrics to make these reports even more detailed and helpful when investigating performance issues. Previously, the only output format for a local file was the `*.txt` format. In Kotlin 2.0.0, we support the JSON output format to make it even easier to analyze using other tools. 

To configure JSON output format for your build reports, declare the following properties in your `gradle.properties` file: 

```
kotlin.build.report.output=json
```

```
// The directory to store your build reports
kotlin.build.report.json.directory=my/directory/path
```

Alternatively, you can run the following command: 

```
./gradlew assemble -Pkotlin.build.report.output=json -
Pkotlin.build.report.json.directory="my/directory/path"
```

Once configured, Gradle generates your build reports in the directory that you specify with the name: `${project_name}-date-time-<sequence_number>.json` . 

Here's an example snippet from a build report with JSON output format that contains build metrics and aggregated metrics: 

1834 

```
"buildOperationRecord": [
    {
     "path": ":lib:compileKotlin",
      "classFqName": "org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompile_Decorated",
      "startTimeMs": 1714730820601,
      "totalTimeMs": 2724,
      "buildMetrics": {
        "buildTimes": {
          "buildTimesNs": {
            "CLEAR_OUTPUT": 713417,
            "SHRINK_AND_SAVE_CURRENT_CLASSPATH_SNAPSHOT_AFTER_COMPILATION": 19699333,
            "IR_TRANSLATION": 281000000,
            "NON_INCREMENTAL_LOAD_CURRENT_CLASSPATH_SNAPSHOT": 14088042,
            "CALCULATE_OUTPUT_SIZE": 1301500,
            "GRADLE_TASK": 2724000000,
            "COMPILER_INITIALIZATION": 263000000,
            "IR_GENERATION": 74000000,
//.
          }
        }
//.
 "aggregatedMetrics": {
    "buildTimes": {
      "buildTimesNs": {
        "CLEAR_OUTPUT": 782667,
        "SHRINK_AND_SAVE_CURRENT_CLASSPATH_SNAPSHOT_AFTER_COMPILATION": 22031833,
        "IR_TRANSLATION": 333000000,
        "NON_INCREMENTAL_LOAD_CURRENT_CLASSPATH_SNAPSHOT": 14890292,
        "CALCULATE_OUTPUT_SIZE": 2370750,
        "GRADLE_TASK": 3234000000,
        "COMPILER_INITIALIZATION": 292000000,
        "IR_GENERATION": 89000000,
//.
      }
    }
```

## **kapt configurations inherit annotation processors from superconfigurations** 

Prior to Kotlin 2.0.0, if you wanted to define a common set of annotation processors in a separate Gradle configuration and extend this configuration in kapt-specific configurations for your subprojects, kapt would skip annotation processing because it couldn't find any annotation processors. In Kotlin 2.0.0, kapt can successfully detect that there are indirect dependencies on your annotation processors. 

As an example, for a subproject using Dagger, in your `build.gradle(.kts)` file, use the following configuration: 

```
val commonAnnotationProcessors by configurations.creating
configurations.named("kapt"){extendsFrom(commonAnnotationProcessors)}
```

```
dependencies {
```

```
implementation("com.google.dagger:dagger:2.48.1")
commonAnnotationProcessors("com.google.dagger:dagger-compiler:2.48.1")
}
```

In this example, the `commonAnnotationProcessors` Gradle configuration is your common configuration for annotation processing that you want to be used for all your projects. You use the `extendsFrom()` method to add 

`commonAnnotationProcessors` as a superconfiguration. kapt sees that the `commonAnnotationProcessors` Gradle configuration has a dependency on the Dagger annotation processor. Therefore, kapt includes the Dagger annotation processor in its configuration for annotation processing. 

1835 

Thanks to Christoph Loy for the implementation! 

## **Kotlin Gradle plugin no longer uses deprecated Gradle conventions** 

Prior to Kotlin 2.0.0, if you used Gradle 8.2 or higher, the Kotlin Gradle plugin incorrectly used Gradle conventions that had been deprecated in Gradle 8.2. This led to Gradle reporting build deprecations. In Kotlin 2.0.0, the Kotlin Gradle plugin has been updated to no longer trigger these deprecation warnings when you use Gradle 8.2 or higher. 

## **Standard library** 

This release brings further stability to the Kotlin standard library and makes even more existing functions common for all platforms: 

- Stable replacement of the enum class values generic function 

- Stable AutoCloseable interface 

- 

   - Common protected property AbstractMutableList.modCount 

- Common protected function AbstractMutableList.removeRange 

- Common String.toCharArray(destination) 

## **Stable replacement of the enum class values generic function** 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, the `enumEntries<T>()` function becomes Stable. The `enumEntries<T>()` function is a replacement for the generic `enumValues<T>()` function. The new function returns a list of all enum entries for the given enum type `T` . The `entries` property for enum classes was previously introduced and also stabilized to replace the synthetic `values()` function. For more information about the entries property, see What's new in Kotlin 1.8.20. 

The `enumValues<T>()` function is still supported, but we recommend that you use the `enumEntries<T> ()` function instead because it has less of a performance impact. Every time you call `enumValues<T>()` , a new array is created, whereas whenever you call `enumEntries<T>()` , the same list is returned each time, which is far more efficient. 

For example: 

```
enumclass RGB { RED, GREEN, BLUE }
```

```
inlinefun<reified T : Enum<T>printAllValues(){
print(enumEntries<T>().joinToString{ it.name })
}
printAllValues<RGB>()
// RED, GREEN, BLUE
```

## **Stable AutoCloseable interface** 

In Kotlin 2.0.0, the common `AutoCloseable` interface becomes Stable. It allows you to easily close resources and includes a couple of useful functions: 

1836 

- The `use()` extension function, which executes a given block function on the selected resource and then closes it down correctly, whether an exception is thrown or not. 

- The `AutoCloseable()` constructor function, which creates instances of the `AutoCloseable` interface. 

In the example below, we define the `XMLWriter` interface and assume that there is a resource that implements it. For example, this resource could be a class that opens a file, writes XML content, and then closes it: 

```
interface XMLWriter {
fundocument(encoding: String, version: String, content: XMLWriter.()/> Unit)
funelement(name: String, content: XMLWriter.()/> Unit)
funattribute(name: String, value: String)
funtext(value: String)
funflushAndClose()
}
funwriteBooksTo(writer: XMLWriter){
val autoCloseable = AutoCloseable { writer.flushAndClose()}
    autoCloseable.use{
        writer.document(encoding ="UTF-8", version ="1.0"){
element("bookstore"){
element("book"){
attribute("category","fiction")
element("title"){text("Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban")}
element("author"){text("J. K. Rowling")}
element("year"){text("1999")}
element("price"){text("29.99")}
}
element("book"){
attribute("category","programming")
element("title"){text("Kotlin in Action")}
element("author"){text("Dmitry Jemerov")}
element("author"){text("Svetlana Isakova")}
element("year"){text("2017")}
element("price"){text("25.19")}
}
}
}
}
}
```

## **Common protected property AbstractMutableList.modCount** 

In this release, the `modCount protected` property of the `AbstractMutableList` interface becomes common. Previously, the `modCount` property was available on each platform but not for the common target. Now, you can create custom implementations of `AbstractMutableList` and access the property in common code. 

The property keeps track of the number of structural modifications made to the collection. This includes operations that change the collection size or alter the list in a way that may cause iterations in progress to return incorrect results. 

You can use the `modCount` property to register and detect concurrent modifications when implementing a custom list. 

1837 

## **Common protected function AbstractMutableList.removeRange** 

In this release, the `removeRange() protected` function of the `AbstractMutableList` interface becomes common. Previously, it was available on each platform but not for the common target. Now, you can create custom implementations of `AbstractMutableList` and override the function in common code. 

The function removes elements from this list following the specified range. By overriding this function, you can take advantage of the custom implementations and improve the performance of the list operation. 

## **Common String.toCharArray(destination) function** 

This release introduces a common `String.toCharArray(destination)` function. Previously, it was only available on the JVM. 

Let's compare it with the existing `String.toCharArray()` function. It creates a new `CharArray` that contains characters from the specified string. The new common `String.toCharArray(destination)` function, however, moves `String` characters into an existing destination `CharArray` . This is useful if you already have a buffer that you want to fill: 

```
funmain(){
val myString ="Kotlin is awesome!"
val destinationArray =CharArray(myString.length)
```

```
// Convert the string and store it in the destinationArray:
    myString.toCharArray(destinationArray)
```

```
for(char in destinationArray){
print("$char ")
// K o t l i n   i s   a w e s o m e !
}
}
```

## **Install Kotlin 2.0.0** 

Starting from IntelliJ IDEA 2023.3 and Android Studio Iguana (2023.2.1) Canary 15, the Kotlin plugin is distributed as a bundled plugin included in your IDE. This means that you can't install the plugin from JetBrains Marketplace anymore. 

To update to the new Kotlin version, change the Kotlin version to 2.0.0 in your build scripts. 

## **Compatibility guide for Kotlin 2.0.x** 

Keeping the Language Modern and Comfortable Updates are among the fundamental principles in Kotlin Language Design. The former says that constructs which obstruct language evolution should be removed, and the latter says that this removal should be well-communicated beforehand to make code migration as smooth as possible. 

While most of the language changes were already announced through other channels, like updated changelogs or compiler warnings, this document provides a complete reference for migration from Kotlin 1.9 to Kotlin 2.0. 

The Kotlin K2 compiler is introduced as part of Kotlin 2.0. For information on the benefits of the new compiler, changes you might encounter during migration, and how to roll back to the previous compiler, see K2 compiler migration guide. 

1838 

## **Basic terms** 

In this document we introduce several kinds of compatibility: 

- source: source-incompatible change stops code that used to compile fine (without errors or warnings) from compiling anymore 

- binary: two binary artifacts are said to be binary-compatible if interchanging them doesn't lead to loading or linkage errors 

- behavioral: a change is said to be behavioral-incompatible if the same program demonstrates different behavior before and after applying the change 

Remember that those definitions are given only for pure Kotlin. Compatibility of Kotlin code from the other languages perspective (for example, from Java) is out of the scope of this document. 

## **Language** 

## **Deprecate use of a synthetic setter on a projected receiver** 

**Issue** : KT-54309 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : If you use the synthetic setter of a Java class to assign a type that conflicts with the class's projected type, an error is triggered. 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.8.20: report a warning when a synthetic property setter has a projected parameter type in contravariant position making call-site argument types incompatible 

- 

- 2.0.0: raise the warning to an error 

## **Correct mangling when calling functions with inline class parameters that are overloaded in a Java subclass** 

**Issue** : KT-56545 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: use the correct mangling behavior in function invocations; to revert to the previous behaviour, use the `-XXLanguage:-MangleCallsToJavaMethodsWithValueClasses` compiler option. 

1839 

## **Correct type approximation algorithm for contravariant captured types** 

**Issue** : KT-49404 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.8.20: report a warning on problematic calls 

- 2.0.0: raise the warning to an error 

## **Prohibit accessing property value before property initialization** 

**Issue** : KT-56408 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: report an error when a property is accessed before initialization in the affected contexts 

## **Report error when there's ambiguity in imported classes with the same name** 

**Issue** : KT-57750 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: report an error when resolving a class name that is present in several packages imported with a star import 

## **Generate Kotlin lambdas via invokedynamic and LambdaMetafactory by default** 

**Issue** : KT-45375 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: implement new behavior; lambdas are generated using `invokedynamic` and `LambdaMetafactory` by default 

1840 

**Forbid if condition with one branch when an expression is required** 

**Issue** : KT-57871 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: report an error in case the `if` condition has only one branch 

## **Prohibit violation of self upper bounds by passing a star-projection of a generic type** 

**Issue** : KT-61718 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: report an error when self upper bounds are violated by passing a star-projection of a generic type 

## **Approximate anonymous types in private inline functions return type** 

**Issue** : KT-54862 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.9.0: report a warning on private inline functions if the inferred return type contains an anonymous type 

- 

- 2.0.0: approximate return type of such private inline functions to a supertype 

1841 

**Change overload resolution behavior to prioritize local extension function calls over invoke conventions of local functional type properties** 

**Issue** : KT-37592 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: new overload resolution behavior; function calls are consistently prioritized over invoke conventions 

## **Report error when an inherited member conflict occurs due to a change in a supertype from binary dependency** 

**Issue** : KT-51194 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.7.0: report a warning CONFLICTING_INHERITED_MEMBERS_WARNING on declarations where inherited member conflict has occurred in the supertype from binary dependency 

- 

- 2.0.0: raise the warning to an error: CONFLICTING_INHERITED_MEMBERS 

## **Ignore @UnsafeVariance annotations on parameters in invariant types** 

## **Issue** : KT-57609 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: implement new behavior; the `@UnsafeVariance` annotation is ignored when reporting errors about type mismatch in contravariant parameters 

1842 

**Change type for out-of-call references to a companion object's member** 

## **Issue** : KT-54316 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.8.20: report a warning on a companion object function reference type inferred as an unbound reference 

- 2.0.0: change the behavior so that companion object function references are inferred as bound references in all usage contexts 

## **Prohibit exposure of anonymous types from private inline functions** 

**Issue** : KT-33917 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.3.0: report a warning on calls to own members of anonymous objects, returned from private inline functions 

- 2.0.0: approximate return type of such private inline functions to a supertype and don't resolve calls to anonymous object members 

## **Report error for an unsound smart cast after a while-loop break** 

**Issue** : KT-22379 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: implement new behavior; the old behavior can be restored by switching to language version 1.9 

1843 

**Report error when a variable of an intersection type is assigned a value that is not a subtype of that intersection type** 

**Issue** : KT-53752 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: report an error when a variable having an intersection type is assigned a value that is not a subtype of that intersection type 

## **Require opt-in when an interface constructed with a SAM constructor contains a method that requires an opt-in** 

**Issue** : KT-52628 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 1.7.20: report a warning for `OptIn` usages via SAM constructor 

- 2.0.0: raise the warning to an error for `OptIn` usages via SAM constructor (or keep reporting the warning if `OptIn` marker severity is a warning) 

## **Prohibit upper bound violation in typealias constructors** 

**Issue** : KT-54066 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.8.0: introduce a warning for cases when the upper bound is violated in typealias constructors 

- 2.0.0: raise the warning to an error in the K2 compiler 

1844 

**Make the real type of a destructuring variable consistent with the explicit type when specified** 

**Issue** : KT-57011 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: implement new behavior; the real type of destructuring variable is now consistent with the explicit type when specified 

## **Require opt-in when calling a constructor that has parameter types with default values that require an opt-in** 

**Issue** : KT-55111 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 1.8.20: report a warning on constructor calls that has parameter types which require opt-in 

- 2.0.0: raise the warning to an error (or keep reporting a warning if the `OptIn` marker severity is a warning) 

## **Report ambiguity between a property and an enum entry with the same name at the same scope level** 

**Issue** : KT-52802 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.7.20: report a warning when the compiler resolves to a property instead of an enum entry at the same scope level 

- 2.0.0: report ambiguity when the compiler encounters both a property and an enum entry with the same name at the same scope level in the K2 compiler (leaving the warning as is in the old compiler) 

1845 

**Change qualifier resolution behavior to prefer companion property over enum entry** 

## **Issue** : KT-47310 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: implement new resolution behavior; companion property is preferred over enum entry 

## **Resolve invoke call receiver type and the invoke function type as if written in desugared form** 

## **Issue** : KT-58260 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: resolve invoke call receiver type and the invoke function type independently as if they were written in a desugared form 

## **Prohibit exposing private class members through non-private inline functions** 

**Issue** : KT-55179 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.9.0: report the `PRIVATE_CLASS_MEMBER_FROM_INLINE_WARNING` warning when calling private class companion object member from internal inline functions 

- 

- 2.0.0: raise this warning to the `PRIVATE_CLASS_MEMBER_FROM_INLINE` error 

## **Correct nullability of definitely non-null types in projected generic types** 

**Issue** : KT-54663 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: implement new behavior; projected types take into account all in-place not-null types 

1846 

**Change inferred type of prefix increment to match getter's return type instead of inc() operator's return type** 

**Issue** : KT-57178 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: implement new behavior; inferred type of prefix increment is changed to match getter's return type instead of the `inc()` operator's return type 

## **Enforce bound checks when inheriting inner classes from generic inner classes declared in superclasses** 

**Issue** : KT-61749 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: report an error when upper bound of the type parameter of a generic inner superclass is violated 

## **Forbid assigning callable references with SAM types when the expected type is a function type with a function type parameter** 

**Issue** : KT-64342 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: report a compilation error on callable references with SAM types when the expected type is a function type with a function type parameter 

1847 

## **Consider companion object scope for annotation resolution on companion objects** 

## **Issue** : KT-64299 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: implement new behavior; the companion object scope is now not ignored during annotation resolution on companion objects 

## **Change evaluation semantics for combination of safe calls and convention operators** 

**Issue** : KT-41034 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.4.0: report warnings on each incorrect call 

- 2.0.0: implement new resolution behavior 

## **Require properties with backing field and a custom setter to be immediately initialized** 

**Issue** : KT-58589 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.9.20: introduce the `MUST_BE_INITIALIZED` warning for cases where there is no primary constructor 

- 

- 2.0.0: raise the warning to an error 

1848 

**Prohibit Unit conversion on arbitrary expressions in invoke operator convention call** 

## **Issue** : KT-61182 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: report an error when Unit conversion is applied to an arbitrary expression on variable and invoke resolution; use the `-XXLanguage:+UnitConversionsOnArbitraryExpressions` compiler option to keep the previous behavior with affected expressions. 

## **Forbid nullable assignment to non-null Java field when the field is accessed with a safe call** 

**Issue** : KT-62998 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: report to an error in case a nullable is assigned to a non-null Java field 

## **Require star-projected type when overriding a Java method containing a raw-type parameter** 

**Issue** : KT-57600 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: implement new behavior; overriding is forbidden for raw type parameters 

1849 

**Change (V)::foo reference resolution when V has a companion** 

## **Issue** : KT-47313 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 1.6.0: report a warning on callable references currently bound to companion object instances 

- 2.0.0: implement new behavior; adding parentheses around a type no longer makes it a reference to the type's companion object instance 

## **Forbid implicit non-public API access in effectively public inline functions** 

**Issue** : KT-54997 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.8.20: report a compilation warning when implicit non-public API is accessed in public inline functions 

- 

- 2.0.0: raise the warning to an error 

## **Prohibit use-site get annotations on property getters** 

**Issue** : KT-57422 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 1.9.0: report a warning (an error in the progressive mode) on use-site `get` annotations on getters 

- 2.0.0: raise the warning to the `INAPPLICABLE_TARGET_ON_PROPERTY` error; use `-XXLanguage:ProhibitUseSiteGetTargetAnnotations` to revert to a warning 

1850 

**Prevent implicit inference of type parameters into upper bounds in builder inference lambda functions** 

**Issue** : KT-47986 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.7.20: report a warning (or an error in the progressive mode) when the type parameter for a type argument cannot be inferred into declared upper bounds 

- 

- 2.0.0: raise the warning to an error 

## **Keep nullability when approximating local types in public signatures** 

**Issue** : KT-53982 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.8.0: flexible types are approximated by flexible supertypes; report a warning when a declaration is inferred to have a non-nullable type that should be nullable, prompting to specify the type explicitly to avoid NPEs 

- 

- 2.0.0: nullable types are approximated by nullable supertypes 

## **Remove special handling for false && ... and false || ... for the purposes of smart-casting** 

**Issue** : KT-65776 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: implement new behavior; no special handling for `false && ...` and `false || ...` 

1851 

## **Forbid inline open functions in enums** 

**Issue** : KT-34372 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.8.0: report a warning on inline open functions in enums 

- 2.0.0: raise the warning to an error 

## **Tools** 

## **Visibility changes in Gradle** 

**Issue** : KT-64653 

**Component** : Gradle 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Previously, certain Kotlin DSL functions and properties intended for a specific DSL context would inadvertently leak into other DSL contexts. We've added the `@KotlinGradlePluginDsl` annotation, which prevents the exposure of the Kotlin Gradle plugin DSL functions and properties to levels where they are not intended to be available. The following levels are separated from each other: 

- 

   - Kotlin extension 

- 

- 

- 

- Kotlin target 

- Kotlin compilation 

- Kotlin compilation task 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: for most popular cases, the compiler reports warnings with suggestions on how to fix them if your build script is configured incorrectly; otherwise, the compiler reports an error 

1852 

## **Deprecate kotlinOptions DSL** 

## **Issue** : KT-63419 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : The ability to configure compiler options through the `kotlinOptions` DSL and the related `KotlinCompile<KotlinOptions>` task interface have been deprecated. 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: report a warning 

## **Deprecate compilerOptions in KotlinCompilation DSL** 

## **Issue** : KT-65568 

**Component** : Gradle 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : The ability to configure the `compilerOptions` property in the `KotlinCompilation` DSL has been deprecated. 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 2.0.0: report a warning 

## **Deprecate old ways of CInteropProcess handling** 

## **Issue** : KT-62795 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : the `CInteropProcess` task and the `CInteropSettings` class now use the `definitionFile` property instead of `defFile` and `defFileProperty` . 

This eliminates the need to add extra `dependsOn` relations between the `CInteropProcess` task and the task that generates `defFile` when the `defFile` is dynamically generated. 

In Kotlin/Native projects, Gradle now lazily verifies the presence of the `definitionFile` property after the connected task has run later in the build process. 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 2.0.0: `defFile` and `defFileProperty` parameters are deprecated 

- 2.4.0: report an error for the deprecated `defFile` property 

1853 

**Remove kotlin.useK2 Gradle property** 

## **Issue** : KT-64379 

**Component** : Gradle 

## **Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

**Short summary** : The `kotlin.useK2` Gradle property has been removed. In Kotlin 1.9.*, it could be used to enable the K2 compiler. In Kotlin 2.0.0 and later, the K2 compiler is enabled by default, so the property has no effect and cannot be used to switch back to the previous compiler. 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 1.8.20: the `kotlin.useK2` Gradle property is deprecated 

- 

- 2.0.0: the `kotlin.useK2` Gradle property is removed 

## **Remove deprecated platform plugin IDs** 

## **Issue** : KT-65187 

## **Component** : Gradle 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : support for these platform plugin IDs have been removed: 

- 

   - `kotlin-platform-android` 

- 

   - `kotlin-platform-jvm` 

- 

   - `kotlin-platform-js` 

- 

   - `org.jetbrains.kotlin.platform.android` 

- 

   - `org.jetbrains.kotlin.platform.jvm` 

- 

- `org.jetbrains.kotlin.platform.js` 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.3: the platform plugin IDs are deprecated 

- 2.0.0: the platform plugin IDs are no longer supported 

1854 

## **Remove outputFile JavaScript compiler option** 

## **Issue** : KT-61116 

## **Component** : Gradle 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : The `outputFile` JavaScript compiler option has been removed. Instead, you can use the 

`destinationDirectory` property of the `Kotlin2JsCompile` task to specify the directory where the compiled JavaScript output files are written. 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 1.9.25: the `outputFile` compiler option is deprecated 

- 

- 2.0.0: the `outputFile` compiler option is removed 

## **What's new in Kotlin 1.9.20** 

## Released: November 1, 2023 

The Kotlin 1.9.20 release is out, the K2 compiler for all the targets is now in Beta, and Kotlin Multiplatform is now Stable. Additionally, here are some of the main highlights: 

- New default hierarchy template for setting up multiplatform projects 

- 

Full support for the Gradle configuration cache in Kotlin Multiplatform 

- Custom memory allocator enabled by default in Kotlin/Native 

- Performance improvements for the garbage collector in Kotlin/Native 

- 

   - New and renamed targets in Kotlin/Wasm 

- 

## Support for the WASI API in the standard library for Kotlin/Wasm 

You can also find a short overview of the updates in this video: 

## **Watch video online.** 

For information about the Kotlin release cycle, see Kotlin release process. 

## **IDE support** 

The Kotlin plugins that support 1.9.20 are available for: 

IDE Supported versions 

IntelliJ IDEA 2023.1.x, 2023.2.x, 2023.x 

Android Studio Hedgehog (2023.1.1), Iguana (2023.2.1) 

1855 

Starting from IntelliJ IDEA 2023.3.x and Android Studio Iguana (2023.2.1) Canary 15, the Kotlin plugin is automatically included and updated. All you need to do is update the Kotlin version in your projects. 

## **New Kotlin K2 compiler updates** 

The Kotlin team at JetBrains is continuing to stabilize the new K2 compiler, which will bring major performance improvements, speed up new language feature development, unify all the platforms that Kotlin supports, and provide a better architecture for multiplatform projects. 

K2 is currently in **Beta** for all targets. Read more in the release blog post 

## **Support for Kotlin/Wasm** 

Since this release, the Kotlin/Wasm supports the new K2 compiler. Learn how to enable it in your project. 

## **Preview kapt compiler plugin with K2** 

Support for K2 in the kapt compiler plugin is Experimental. Opt-in is required (see details below), and you should use it only for evaluation purposes. 

In 1.9.20, you can try using the kapt compiler plugin with the K2 compiler. To use the K2 compiler in your project, add the following options to your `gradle.properties` file: 

```
kotlin.experimental.tryK2=true
kapt.use.k2=true
```

Alternatively, you can enable K2 for kapt by completing the following steps: 

1. In your `build.gradle.kts` file, set the language version to `2.0` . 

2. In your `gradle.properties` file, add `kapt.use.k2=true` . 

If you encounter any issues when using kapt with the K2 compiler, please report them to our issue tracker. 

## **How to enable the Kotlin K2 compiler** 

## **Enable K2 in Gradle** 

To enable and test the Kotlin K2 compiler, use the new language version with the following compiler option: 

```
-language-version 2.0
```

You can specify it in your `build.gradle.kts` file: 

```
kotlin {
    sourceSets.all{
        languageSettings {
            languageVersion ="2.0"
}
}
}
```

1856 

## **Enable K2 in Maven** 

To enable and test the Kotlin K2 compiler, update the `<project/>` section of your `pom.xml` file: 

```
<properties>
```

```
<kotlin.compiler.languageVersion>2.0//kotlin.compiler.languageVersion>
//properties>
```

## **Enable K2 in IntelliJ IDEA** 

To enable and test the Kotlin K2 compiler in IntelliJ IDEA, go to **Settings** | **Build, Execution, Deployment** | **Compiler** | **Kotlin Compiler** and update the **Language Version** field to `2.0 (experimental)` . 

## **Leave your feedback on the new K2 compiler** 

We would appreciate any feedback you may have! 

- Provide your feedback directly to K2 developers on Kotlin Slack – get an invite and join the #k2-early-adopters channel. 

- Report any problems you faced with the new K2 compiler on our issue tracker. 

- Enable the Send usage statistics option to allow JetBrains to collect anonymous data about K2 usage. 

## **Kotlin/JVM** 

Starting with version 1.9.20, the compiler can generate classes containing Java 21 bytecode. 

## **Kotlin/Native** 

Kotlin 1.9.20 includes a Stable memory manager with the new memory allocator enabled by default, performance improvements for the garbage collector, and other updates: 

- Custom memory allocator enabled by default 

- 

   - Performance improvements for the garbage collector 

- 

   - Incremental compilation of `klib` artifacts 

- 

   - Managing library linkage issues 

- 

   - Companion object initialization on class constructor calls 

- Opt-in requirement for all cinterop declarations 

- Custom message for linker errors 

- 

   - Removal of the legacy memory manager 

- 

- Change to our target tiers policy 

## **Custom memory allocator enabled by default** 

Kotlin 1.9.20 comes with the new memory allocator enabled by default. It's designed to replace the previous default allocator, `mimalloc` , to make garbage collection more efficient and improve the runtime performance of the Kotlin/Native memory manager. 

1857 

The new custom allocator divides system memory into pages, allowing independent sweeping in consecutive order. Each allocation becomes a memory block within a page, and the page keeps track of block sizes. Different page types are optimized for various allocation sizes. The consecutive arrangement of memory blocks ensures efficient iteration through all allocated blocks. 

When a thread allocates memory, it searches for a suitable page based on the allocation size. Threads maintain a set of pages for different size categories. Typically, the current page for a given size can accommodate the allocation. If not, the thread requests a different page from the shared allocation space. This page may already be available, require sweeping, or have to be created first. 

The new allocator allows for multiple independent allocation spaces simultaneously, which will enable the Kotlin team to experiment with different page layouts to improve performance even further. 

## **How to enable the custom memory allocator** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.20, the new memory allocator is the default. No additional setup is required. 

If you experience high memory consumption, you can switch back to `mimalloc` or the system allocator with `- Xallocator=mimalloc` or `-Xallocator=std` in your Gradle build script. Please report such issues in YouTrack to help us improve the new memory allocator. 

For the technical details of the new allocator's design, see this README. 

## **Performance improvements for the garbage collector** 

The Kotlin team continues to improve the performance and stability of the new Kotlin/Native memory manager. This release brings a number of significant changes to the garbage collector (GC), including the following 1.9.20 highlights: 

- Full parallel mark to reduce the pause time for the GC 

- 

- Tracking memory in big chunks to improve the allocation performance 

## **Full parallel mark to reduce the pause time for the GC** 

Previously, the default garbage collector performed only a partial parallel mark. When the mutator thread was paused, it would mark the GC's start from its own roots, like thread–local variables and the call stack. Meanwhile, a separate GC thread was responsible for marking the start from global roots, as well as the roots of all mutators that were actively running the native code and therefore not paused. 

This approach worked well in cases where there were a limited number of global objects and the mutator threads spent a considerable amount of time in a runnable state executing Kotlin code. However, this is not the case for typical iOS applications. 

Now the GC uses a full parallel mark that combines paused mutators, the GC thread, and optional marker threads to process the mark queue. By default, the marking process is performed by: 

- Paused mutators. Instead of processing their own roots and then being idle while not actively executing code, they contribute to the whole marking process. 

- The GC thread. This ensures that at least one thread will perform marking. 

This new approach makes the marking process more efficient, reducing the pause time of the GC. 

1858 

## **Tracking memory in big chunks to improve the allocation performance** 

Previously, the GC scheduler tracked the allocation of each object individually. However, neither the new default custom allocator nor the `mimalloc` memory allocator allocates separate storage for each object; they allocate large areas for several objects at once. 

In Kotlin 1.9.20, the GC tracks areas instead of individual objects. This speeds up the allocation of small objects by reducing the number of tasks performed on each allocation and, therefore, helps to minimize the garbage collector's memory usage. 

## **Incremental compilation of klib artifacts** 

This feature is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see details below). Use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

Kotlin 1.9.20 introduces a new compilation time optimization for Kotlin/Native. The compilation of `klib` artifacts into native code is now partially incremental. 

When compiling Kotlin source code into native binary in debug mode, the compilation goes through two stages: 

1. Source code is compiled into `klib` artifacts. 

2. `klib` artifacts, along with dependencies, are compiled into a binary. 

To optimize the compilation time in the second stage, the team has already implemented compiler caches for dependencies. They are compiled into native code only once, and the result is reused every time a binary is compiled. But `klib` artifacts built from project sources were always fully recompiled into native code at every project change. 

With the new incremental compilation, if the project module change causes only a partial recompilation of source code into `klib` artifacts, just a part of the `klib` is further recompiled into a binary. 

To enable incremental compilation, add the following option to your `gradle.properties` file: 

```
kotlin.incremental.native=true
```

If you face any issues, report such cases to YouTrack. 

## **Managing library linkage issues** 

This release improves the way the Kotlin/Native compiler handles linkage issues in Kotlin libraries. Error messages now include more readable declarations as they use signature names instead of hashes, helping you find and fix the issue more easily. Here's an example: 

```
No function found for symbol
'org.samples/MyClass.removedFunction|removedFunction(kotlin.Int;kotlin.String){}[0]'
```

The Kotlin/Native compiler detects linkage issues between third-party Kotlin libraries and reports errors at runtime. You might face such issues if the author of one third-party Kotlin library makes an incompatible change in experimental APIs that another third-party Kotlin library consumes. 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.20, the compiler detects linkage issues in silent mode by default. You can adjust this setting in your projects: 

1859 

- If you want to record these issues in your compilation logs, enable warnings with the `-Xpartial-linkageloglevel=WARNING` compiler option. 

- It's also possible to raise the severity of reported warnings to compilation errors with `-Xpartial-linkageloglevel=ERROR` . In this case, the compilation fails, and you get all the errors in the compilation log. Use this option to examine the linkage issues more closely. 

```
// An example of passing compiler options in a Gradle build file:
kotlin {
macosX64("native"){
        binaries.executable()
        compilations.configureEach{
            compilerOptions.configure{
// To report linkage issues as warnings:
                freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xpartial-linkage-loglevel=WARNING")
// To raise linkage warnings to errors:
                freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xpartial-linkage-loglevel=ERROR")
}
}
}
}
```

If you face unexpected problems with this feature, you can always opt out with the `-Xpartial-linkage=disable` compiler option. Don't hesitate to report such cases to our issue tracker. 

## **Companion object initialization on class constructor calls** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.20, the Kotlin/Native backend calls static initializers for companion objects in class constructors: 

```
class Greeting {
companionobject{
init{
print("Hello, Kotlin!")
}
}
}
funmain(){
val start =Greeting()// Prints "Hello, Kotlin!"
}
```

The behavior is now unified with Kotlin/JVM, where a companion object is initialized when the corresponding class matching the semantics of a Java static initializer is loaded (resolved). 

Now that the implementation of this feature is more consistent between platforms, it's easier to share code in Kotlin Multiplatform projects. 

## **Opt-in requirement for all cinterop declarations** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.20, all Kotlin declarations generated by the `cinterop` tool from C and Objective-C libraries, like libcurl and libxml, are marked with `@ExperimentalForeignApi` . If the opt-in annotation is missing, your code won't compile. 

1860 

This requirement reflects the Experimental status of the import of C and Objective-C libraries. We recommend that you confine its use to specific areas in your projects. This will make your migration easier once we begin stabilizing the import. 

As for native platform libraries shipped with Kotlin/Native (like Foundation, UIKit, and POSIX), only some of their APIs need an opt-in with `@ExperimentalForeignApi` . In such cases, you get a warning with an opt-in requirement. 

## **Custom message for linker errors** 

If you're a library author, you can now help your users resolve linker errors with custom messages. 

If your Kotlin library depends on C or Objective-C libraries, for example, using the CocoaPods integration, its users need to have these dependent libraries locally on the machine or configure them explicitly in the project build script. If this was not the case, users used to get a confusing "Framework not found" message. 

`-` You can now provide a specific instruction or a link in the compilation failure message. To do that, pass the `Xuser-setup-hint` compiler option to `cinterop` or add a `userSetupHint=message` property to your `.def` file. 

## **Removal of the legacy memory manager** 

The new memory manager was introduced in Kotlin 1.6.20 and became the default in 1.7.20. Since then, it has been receiving further updates and performance improvements and has become Stable. 

The time has come to complete the deprecation cycle and remove the legacy memory manager. If you're still using it, remove the `kotlin.native.binary.memoryModel=strict` option from your `gradle.properties` and follow our Migration guide to make the necessary changes. 

## **Change to our target tiers policy** 

We've decided to upgrade the requirements for tier 1 support. The Kotlin team is now committed to providing source and binary compatibility between compiler releases for targets eligible for tier 1. They must also be regularly tested with CI tools to be able to compile and run. Currently, tier 1 includes the following targets for macOS hosts: 

- `macosX64` 

- `macosArm64` 

- `iosSimulatorArm64` 

- `iosX64` 

In Kotlin 1.9.20, we've also removed a number of previously deprecated targets, namely: 

- `iosArm32` 

- `watchosX86` 

- `wasm32` 

- `mingwX86` 

- `linuxMips32` 

- `linuxMipsel32` 

1861 

See the full list of currently supported targets. 

## **Kotlin Multiplatform** 

Kotlin 1.9.20 focuses on the stabilization of Kotlin Multiplatform and makes new steps in improving developer experience with the new project wizards and other notable features: 

- Kotlin Multiplatform is Stable 

- 

   - Template for configuring multiplatform projects 

- 

   - New project wizard 

- 

   - Full support for the Gradle Configuration cache 

- 

   - Easier configuration of new standard library versions in Gradle 

- 

   - 

   - Default support for third party cinterop libraries 

- Support for Kotlin/Native compilation caches in Compose Multiplatform projects 

- 

- Compatibility guidelines 

## **Kotlin Multiplatform is Stable** 

The 1.9.20 release marks an important milestone in the evolution of Kotlin: Kotlin Multiplatform has finally become Stable. This means that the technology is safe to use in your projects and 100% ready for production. It also means that further development of Kotlin Multiplatform will continue according to our strict backward compatibility rules. 

Please note that some advanced features of Kotlin Multiplatform are still evolving. When using them, you'll receive a warning that describes the current stability status of the feature you're using. Before using any experimental functionality in IntelliJ IDEA, 

you'll need to enable it explicitly in **Settings** | **Advanced Settings** | **Kotlin** | **Experimental Multiplatform** . 

- Visit the Kotlin blog to learn more about the Kotlin Multiplatform stabilization and future plans. 

- Check out the Multiplatform compatibility guide to see what significant changes were made on the way to stabilization. 

- 

- Read about the mechanism of expected and actual declarations, an important part of Kotlin Multiplatform that was also partially stabilized in this release. 

## **Template for configuring multiplatform projects** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.20, the Kotlin Gradle plugin automatically creates shared source sets for popular multiplatform scenarios. If your project setup is one of them, you don't need to configure the source set hierarchy manually. Just explicitly specify the targets necessary for your project. 

Setup is now easier thanks to the default hierarchy template, a new feature of the Kotlin Gradle plugin. It's a predefined template of a source set hierarchy built into the plugin. It includes intermediate source sets that Kotlin automatically creates for the targets you declared. See the full template. 

1862 

## **Create your project easier** 

Consider a multiplatform project that targets both Android and iPhone devices and is developed on an Apple silicon MacBook. Compare how this project is set up between different versions of Kotlin: 

Kotlin 1.9.0 and earlier (a standard setup) 

Kotlin 1.9.20 

**==> picture [517 x 280] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
kotlin { kotlin {<br>androidTarget() androidTarget()<br>iosArm64() iosArm64()<br>iosSimulatorArm64() iosSimulatorArm64()<br>    sourceSets { // The iosMain source set is created<br>val  commonMain  by  getting automatically<br>}<br>val  iosMain  by  creating {<br>dependsOn(commonMain)<br>}<br>val  iosArm64Main  by  getting {<br>dependsOn(iosMain)<br>}<br>val  iosSimulatorArm64Main  by  getting<br>{<br>dependsOn(iosMain)<br>}<br>}<br>}<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Notice how the use of the default hierarchy template considerably reduces the amount of boilerplate code needed to set up your project. 

When you declare the `androidTarget` , `iosArm64` , and `iosSimulatorArm64` targets in your code, the Kotlin Gradle plugin finds suitable shared source sets from the template and creates them for you. The resulting hierarchy looks like this: 

**==> picture [263 x 169] intentionally omitted <==**

An example of the default target hierarchy in use 

Green source sets are actually created and included in the project, while gray ones from the default template are ignored. 

1863 

## **Use completion for source sets** 

To make it easier to work with the created project structure, IntelliJ IDEA now provides completion for source sets created with the default hierarchy template: 

**==> picture [263 x 285] intentionally omitted <==**

Kotlin also warns you if you attempt to access a source set that doesn't exist because you haven't declared the respective target. In the example below, there is no JVM target (only `androidTarget` , which is not the same). But let's try to use the `jvmMain` source set and see what happens: 

```
kotlin {
androidTarget()
iosArm64()
iosSimulatorArm64()
    sourceSets {
        jvmMain {
}
}
}
```

In this case, Kotlin reports a warning in the build log: 

```
w: Accessed 'source set jvmMain' without registering the jvm target:
  kotlin {
      jvm() /* /- register the 'jvm' target //
      sourceSets.jvmMain.dependencies {
      }
  }
```

1864 

## **Set up the target hierarchy** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.20, the default hierarchy template is automatically enabled. In most cases, no additional setup is required. 

However, if you're migrating existing projects created before 1.9.20, you might encounter a warning if you had previously introduced intermediate sources manually with `dependsOn()` calls. To solve this issue, do the following: 

- If your intermediate source sets are currently covered by the default hierarchy template, remove all manual `dependsOn()` calls and source sets created with `by creating` constructions. 

To check the list of all default source sets, see the full hierarchy template. 

- If you want to have additional source sets that the default hierarchy template doesn't provide, for example, one that shares code between a macOS and a JVM target, adjust the hierarchy by reapplying the template explicitly with `applyDefaultHierarchyTemplate()` and configuring additional source sets manually as usual with `dependsOn()` : 

```
kotlin {
jvm()
macosArm64()
iosArm64()
iosSimulatorArm64()
// Apply the default hierarchy explicitly. It'll create, for example, the iosMain source set:
applyDefaultHierarchyTemplate()
```

```
    sourceSets {
// Create an additional jvmAndMacos source set
val jvmAndMacos by creating {
dependsOn(commonMain.get())
}
        macosArm64Main.get().dependsOn(jvmAndMacos)
        jvmMain.get().dependsOn(jvmAndMacos)
}
}
```

- If there are already source sets in your project that have the exact same names as those generated by the template but that are shared among different sets of targets, there's currently no way to modify the default `dependsOn` relations between the template's source sets. 

One option you have here is to find different source sets for your purposes, either in the default hierarchy template or ones that have been manually created. Another is to opt out of the template completely. 

To opt out, add `kotlin.mpp.applyDefaultHierarchyTemplate=false` to your `gradle.properties` and configure all other source sets manually. 

We're currently working on an API for creating your own hierarchy templates to simplify the setup process in such cases. 

## **See the full hierarchy template** 

When you declare the targets to which your project compiles, the plugin picks the shared source sets from the template accordingly and creates them in your project. 

1865 

**==> picture [524 x 562] intentionally omitted <==**

Default hierarchy template 

This example only shows the production part of the project, omitting the `Main` suffix (for example, using `common` instead of `commonMain` ). However, everything is the same for `*Test` sources as well. 

## **New project wizard** 

The JetBrains team is introducing a new way of creating cross–platform projects – the Kotlin Multiplatform web wizard. 

1866 

This first implementation of the new Kotlin Multiplatform wizard covers the most popular Kotlin Multiplatform use cases. It incorporates all the feedback about previous project templates and makes the architecture as robust and reliable as possible. 

The new wizard has a distributed architecture that allows us to have a unified backend and different frontends, with the web version being the first step. We're considering both implementing an IDE version and creating a command-line tool in the future. On the web, you always get the latest version of the wizard, while in IDEs you'll need to wait for the next release. 

With the new wizard, project setup is easier than ever. You can tailor your projects to your needs by choosing the target platforms for mobile, server, and desktop development. We also plan to add web development in future releases. 

**==> picture [300 x 487] intentionally omitted <==**

Multiplatform web wizard 

The new project wizard is now the preferred way to create cross–platform projects with Kotlin. Since 1.9.20, the Kotlin plugin no longer provides a **Kotlin Multiplatform** project wizard in IntelliJ IDEA. 

1867 

The new wizard will guide you easily through the initial setup, making the onboarding process much smoother. If you encounter any issues, please report them to YouTrack to help us improve your experience with the wizard. 

**==> picture [524 x 38] intentionally omitted <==**

Create a project 

## **Full support for the Gradle configuration cache in Kotlin Multiplatform** 

Previously, we introduced a preview of the Gradle configuration cache, which was available for Kotlin multiplatform libraries. With 1.9.20, the Kotlin Multiplatform plugin takes a step further. 

It now supports the Gradle configuration cache in the Kotlin CocoaPods Gradle plugin, as well as in the integration tasks that are necessary for Xcode builds, like `embedAndSignAppleFrameworkForXcode` . 

Now all multiplatform projects can take advantage of the improved build time. The Gradle configuration cache speeds up the build process by reusing the results of the configuration phase for subsequent builds. For more details and setup instructions, see the Gradle documentation. 

## **Easier configuration of new standard library versions in Gradle** 

When you create a multiplatform project, a dependency for the standard library ( `stdlib` ) is added automatically to each source set. This is the easiest way to get started with your multiplatform projects. 

1868 

Previously, if you wanted to configure a dependency on the standard library manually, you needed to configure it for each source set individually. From `kotlin-stdlib:1.9.20` onward, you only need to configure the dependency **once** in the `commonMain` root source set: 

Standard library version 1.9.10 and earlier 

Standard library version 1.9.20 

```
kotlin {
    sourceSets {
// For the common source set
val commonMain by getting {
            dependencies {
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-
stdlib-common:1.9.10")
}
}
// For the JVM source set
val jvmMain by getting {
            dependencies {
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-
stdlib:1.9.10")
}
}
// For the JS source set
val jsMain by getting {
            dependencies {
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-
stdlib-js:1.9.10")
}
}
}
}
```

```
kotlin {
    sourceSets {
        commonMain {
            dependencies {
```

```
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-
stdlib:1.9.20")
}
}
}
}
```

This change was made possible by including new information in the Gradle metadata of the standard library. This allows Gradle to automatically resolve the correct standard library artifacts for the other source sets. 

## **Default support for third-party cinterop libraries** 

Kotlin 1.9.20 adds default support (rather than support by opt-in) for all cinterop dependencies in projects that have the Kotlin CocoaPods Gradle plugin applied. 

This means you can now share more native code without being limited by platform–specific dependencies. For example, you can add dependencies on Pod libraries to the `iosMain` shared source set. 

- Previously, this only worked with platform specific libraries shipped with a Kotlin/Native distribution (like Foundation, UIKit, and POSIX). All third-party Pod libraries are now available in shared source sets by default. You no longer need to specify a separate Gradle property to support them. 

## **Support for Kotlin/Native compilation caches in Compose Multiplatform projects** 

This release resolves a compatibility issue with the Compose Multiplatform compiler plugin, which mostly affected Compose Multiplatform projects for iOS. 

1869 

To work around this issue, you had to disable caching by using the `kotlin.native.cacheKind=none` Gradle property. However, this workaround came at a performance cost: It slowed down compilation time as caching didn't work in the Kotlin/Native compiler. 

Now that the issue is fixed, you can remove `kotlin.native.cacheKind=none` from your `gradle.properties` file and enjoy the improved compilation times in your Compose Multiplatform projects. 

For more tips on improving compilation times, see the Kotlin/Native documentation. 

## **Compatibility guidelines** 

When configuring your projects, check the Kotlin Multiplatform Gradle plugin's compatibility with the available Gradle, Xcode, and Android Gradle plugin (AGP) versions: 

Kotlin Multiplatform Gradle plugin Gradle Android Gradle plugin Xcode 1.9.20 7.5 and later 7.4.2–8.2 15.0. See details below 

As of this release, the recommended version of Xcode is 15.0. Libraries delivered with Xcode 15.0 are fully supported, and you can access them from anywhere in your Kotlin code. 

However, XCode 14.3 should still work in the majority of cases. Keep in mind that if you use version 14.3 on your local machine, libraries delivered with Xcode 15 will be visible but not accessible. 

## **Kotlin/Wasm** 

In 1.9.20, Kotlin Wasm reached the Alpha level of stability. 

- 

   - Compatibility with Wasm GC phase 4 and final opcodes 

- New `wasm-wasi` target, and the renaming of the `wasm` target to `wasm-js` 

- 

   - Support for the WASI API in standard library 

- 

- Kotlin/Wasm API improvements 

Kotlin Wasm is Alpha. It is subject to change at any time. Use it only for evaluation purposes. 

We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

## **Compatibility with Wasm GC phase 4 and final opcodes** 

Wasm GC moves to the final phase and it requires updates of opcodes – constant numbers used in the binary representation. Kotlin 1.9.20 supports the latest opcodes, so we strongly recommend that you update your Wasm projects to the latest version of Kotlin. We also recommend using the latest versions of browsers with the Wasm environment: 

- Version 119 or newer for Chrome and Chromium–based browsers. 

- Version 119 or newer for Firefox. Note that in Firefox 119, you need to turn on Wasm GC manually. 

1870 

## **New wasm-wasi target, and the renaming of the wasm target to wasm-js** 

In this release, we're introducing a new target for Kotlin/Wasm – `wasm-wasi` . We're also renaming the `wasm` target to `wasm-js` . In the Gradle DSL, these targets are available as `wasmWasi {}` and `wasmJs {}` , respectively. 

To use these targets in your project, update the `build.gradle.kts` file: 

```
kotlin {
    wasmWasi {
// //.
}
    wasmJs {
// //.
}
}
```

The previously introduced `wasm {}` block has been deprecated in favor of `wasmJs {}` . 

To migrate your existing Kotlin/Wasm project, do the following: 

- In the `build.gradle.kts` file, rename the `wasm {}` block to `wasmJs {}` . 

- In your project structure, rename the `wasmMain` directory to `wasmJsMain` . 

## **Support for the WASI API in the standard library** 

In this release, we have included support for WASI, a system interface for the Wasm platform. WASI support makes it easier for you to use Kotlin/Wasm outside of browsers, for example in server–side applications, by offering a standardized set of APIs for accessing system resources. In addition, WASI provides capability–based security – another layer of security when accessing external resources. 

To run Kotlin/Wasm applications, you need a VM that supports Wasm Garbage Collection (GC), for example, Node.js or Deno. Wasmtime, WasmEdge, and others are still working towards full Wasm GC support. 

To import a WASI function, use the `@WasmImport` annotation: 

```
import kotlin.wasm.WasmImport
```

```
@WasmImport("wasi_snapshot_preview1","clock_time_get")
privateexternalfunwasiRawClockTimeGet(clockId: Int, precision: Long, resultPtr: Int): Int
```

You can find a full example in our GitHub repository. 

It isn't possible to use interoperability with JavaScript, while targeting `wasmWasi` . 

1871 

## **Kotlin/Wasm API improvements** 

This release delivers several quality-of-life improvements to the Kotlin/Wasm API. For example, you're no longer required to return a value for DOM event listeners: 

Before 1.9.20 In 1.9.20 

```
funmain(){funmain(){
    window.onload ={    window.onload ={ document.body.sayHello()}
        document.body.sayHello()}
null
}
}
```

## **Gradle** 

Kotlin 1.9.20 is fully compatible with Gradle 6.8.3 through 8.1. You can also use Gradle versions up to the latest Gradle release, but if you do, keep in mind that you might encounter deprecation warnings or some new Gradle features might not work. 

This version brings the following changes: 

- Support for test fixtures to access internal declarations 

- New property to configure paths to Konan directories 

- New build report metrics for Kotlin/Native tasks 

## **Support for test fixtures to access internal declarations** 

In Kotlin 1.9.20, if you use Gradle's `java-test-fixtures` plugin, then your test fixtures now have access to 

`internal` declarations within main source set classes. In addition, any test sources can also see any `internal` declarations within test fixtures classes. 

## **New property to configure paths to Konan directories** 

In Kotlin 1.9.20, the `konan.data.dir` Gradle property is available to customize your path to the `~/.konan` directory so that you don't have to configure it through the environment variable `KONAN_DATA_DIR` . 

Alternatively, you can use the `-Xkonan-data-dir` compiler option to configure your custom path to the `~/.konan` directory via the `cinterop` and `konanc` tools. 

## **New build report metrics for Kotlin/Native tasks** 

In Kotlin 1.9.20, Gradle build reports now include metrics for Kotlin/Native tasks. Here is an example of a build report containing these metrics: 

1872 

```
Total time for Kotlin tasks: 20.81 s (93.1 % of all tasks time)
Time   |% of Kotlin time|Task
15.24 s|73.2 %          |:compileCommonMainKotlinMetadata
5.57 s |26.8 %          |:compileNativeMainKotlinMetadata
Task ':compileCommonMainKotlinMetadata' finished in 15.24 s
Task info:
  Kotlin language version: 2.0
Time metrics:
  Total Gradle task time: 15.24 s
  Spent time before task action: 0.16 s
  Task action before worker execution: 0.21 s
  Run native in process: 2.70 s
    Run entry point: 2.64 s
Size metrics:
  Start time of task action: 2023-07-27T11:04:17
Task ':compileNativeMainKotlinMetadata' finished in 5.57 s
Task info:
  Kotlin language version: 2.0
Time metrics:
  Total Gradle task time: 5.57 s
  Spent time before task action: 0.04 s
  Task action before worker execution: 0.02 s
  Run native in process: 1.48 s
    Run entry point: 1.47 s
Size metrics:
  Start time of task action: 2023-07-27T11:04:32
```

In addition, the `kotlin.experimental.tryK2` build report now includes any Kotlin/Native tasks that were compiled and lists the language version used: 

```
##### 'kotlin.experimental.tryK2' results #####
:lib:compileCommonMainKotlinMetadata: 2.0 language version
:lib:compileKotlinJvm: 2.0 language version
:lib:compileKotlinIosArm64: 2.0 language version
:lib:compileKotlinIosSimulatorArm64: 2.0 language version
:lib:compileKotlinLinuxX64: 2.0 language version
:lib:compileTestKotlinJvm: 2.0 language version
:lib:compileTestKotlinIosSimulatorArm64: 2.0 language version
:lib:compileTestKotlinLinuxX64: 2.0 language version
##### 100% (8/8) tasks have been compiled with Kotlin 2.0 #####
```

If you use Gradle 8.0, you might come across some problems with build reports, especially when Gradle configuration caching is enabled. This is a known issue, which is fixed in Gradle 8.1 and later. 

## **Standard library** 

In Kotlin 1.9.20, the Kotlin/Native standard library becomes Stable, and there are some new features: 

- Replacement of the Enum class values generic function 

- Improved performance of HashMap operations in Kotlin/JS 

1873 

## **Replacement of the Enum class values generic function** 

This feature is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see details below). Use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

In Kotlin 1.9.0, the `entries` property for enum classes became Stable. The `entries` property is a modern and performant replacement for the synthetic `values()` function. As part of Kotlin 1.9.20, there is a replacement for the generic `enumValues<T>()` function: `enumEntries<T>()` . 

The `enumValues<T>()` function is still supported, but we recommend that you use the `enumEntries<T> ()` function instead because it has less performance impact. Every time you call `enumValues<T>()` , a new array is created, whereas whenever you call `enumEntries<T>()` , the same list is returned each time, which is far more efficient. 

For example: 

```
enumclass RGB { RED, GREEN, BLUE }
@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi/:class)
inlinefun<reified T : Enum<T>printAllValues(){
print(enumEntries<T>().joinToString{ it.name })
}
printAllValues<RGB>()
// RED, GREEN, BLUE
```

## **How to enable the enumEntries function** 

To try this feature, opt in with `@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi)` and use language version 1.9 or later. If you use the latest version of the Kotlin Gradle plugin, you don't need to specify the language version to test the feature. 

## **The Kotlin/Native standard library becomes Stable** 

In Kotlin 1.9.0, we explained the actions we've taken to bring the Kotlin/Native standard library closer to our goal of stabilization. In Kotlin 1.9.20, we finally conclude this work and make the Kotlin/Native standard library Stable. Here are some highlights from this release: 

- 

   - The `Vector128` class was moved from the `kotlin.native` package to the `kotlinx.cinterop` package. 

- The opt-in requirement level for `ExperimentalNativeApi` and `NativeRuntimeApi` annotations, which were introduced as part of Kotlin 1.9.0, has been raised from `WARNING` to `ERROR` . 

- Kotlin/Native collections now detect concurrent modifications, for example, in the `ArrayList` and `HashMap` collections. 

- The `printStackTrace()` function from the `Throwable` class now prints to `STDERR` instead of `STDOUT` . 

The output format of `printStackTrace()` isn't Stable and is subject to change. 

1874 

## **Improvements to the Atomics API** 

In Kotlin 1.9.0, we said that the Atomics API would be ready to become Stable when the Kotlin/Native standard library becomes Stable. Kotlin 1.9.20 includes the following additional changes: 

- Experimental `AtomicIntArray` , `AtomicLongArray` , and `AtomicArray<T>` classes are introduced. These new classes are designed specifically to be consistent with Java's atomic arrays so that in the future, they can be included in the common standard library. 

The `AtomicIntArray` , `AtomicLongArray` , and `AtomicArray<T>` classes are Experimental. They may be dropped or changed at any time. To try them, opt in with `@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi)` . Use them only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback in YouTrack. 

- In the `kotlin.native.concurrent` package, the Atomics API that was deprecated in Kotlin 1.9.0 with deprecation level `WARNING` has had its deprecation level raised to `ERROR` . 

- In the `kotlin.concurrent` package, member functions of the `AtomicInt` and `AtomicLong` classes that had deprecation level: `ERROR` , have been removed. 

- All member functions of the `AtomicReference` class now use atomic intrinsic functions. 

For more information on all of the changes in Kotlin 1.9.20, see our YouTrack ticket. 

## **Improved performance of HashMap operations in Kotlin/JS** 

Kotlin 1.9.20 improves the performance of `HashMap` operations and reduces their memory footprint in Kotlin/JS. Internally, Kotlin/JS has changed its internal implementation to open addressing. This means that you should see performance improvements when you: 

- Insert new elements into a `HashMap` . 

- Search for existing elements in a `HashMap` . 

- Iterate through keys or values in a `HashMap` . 

## **Documentation updates** 

The Kotlin documentation has received some notable changes: 

- The JVM Metadata API reference – Explore how you can parse metadata with Kotlin/JVM. 

- 

   - Time measurement guide – Learn how to calculate and measure time in Kotlin. 

- Improved Collections chapter in the tour of Kotlin – Learn the fundamentals of the Kotlin programming language with chapters including both theory and practice. 

- 

   - 

   - Definitely non nullable types – Learn about definitely non-nullable generic types. 

- 

   - Improved Arrays page – Learn about arrays and when to use them. 

- Expected and actual declarations in Kotlin Multiplatform – Learn about the Kotlin mechanism of expected and actual declarations in Kotlin Multiplatform. 

1875 

**Install Kotlin 1.9.20** 

## **Check the IDE version** 

Intelli IDEA 2023.1.x and 2023.2.x automatically suggest updating the Kotlin plugin to version 1.9.20. IntelliJ IDEA 2023.3 will include the Kotlin 1.9.20 plugin. 

Android Studio Hedgehog (231) and Iguana (232) will support Kotlin 1.9.20 in their upcoming releases. 

The new command–line compiler is available for download on the GitHub release page. 

## **Configure Gradle settings** 

To download Kotlin artifacts and dependencies, update your `settings.gradle(.kts)` file to use the Maven Central repository: 

```
pluginManagement {
    repositories {
mavenCentral()
gradlePluginPortal()
}
}
```

If the repository is not specified, Gradle uses the sunset JCenter repository, which could lead to issues with Kotlin artifacts. 

## **What's new in Kotlin 1.9.0** 

## Release date: July 6, 2023 

The Kotlin 1.9.0 release is out and the K2 compiler for the JVM is now in **Beta** . Additionally, here are some of the main highlights: 

- New Kotlin K2 compiler updates 

- Stable replacement of the enum class values function 

- Stable `..<` operator for open-ended ranges 

- New common function to get regex capture group by name 

- 

## New path utility to create parent directories 

- 

## Preview of the Gradle configuration cache in Kotlin Multiplatform 

- 

   - Changes to Android target support in Kotlin Multiplatform 

- Preview of custom memory allocator in Kotlin/Native 

- 

## Library linkage in Kotlin/Native 

- Size-related optimizations in Kotlin/Wasm 

You can also find a short overview of the updates in this video: 

**Watch video online.** 

1876 

For information about the Kotlin release cycle, see Kotlin release process. 

## **IDE support** 

The Kotlin plugins that support 1.9.0 are available for: 

IDE Supported versions 

IntelliJ IDEA 2022.3.x, 2023.1.x 

Android Studio Giraffe (223), Hedgehog (231)* 

*The Kotlin 1.9.0 plugin will be included with Android Studio Giraffe (223) and Hedgehog (231) in their upcoming releases. 

The Kotlin 1.9.0 plugin will be included with IntelliJ IDEA 2023.2 in the upcoming releases. 

To download Kotlin artifacts and dependencies, configure your Gradle settings to use the Maven Central Repository. 

## **New Kotlin K2 compiler updates** 

The Kotlin team at JetBrains continues to stabilize the K2 compiler, and the 1.9.0 release introduces further advancements. The K2 compiler for the JVM is now in **Beta** . 

There's now also basic support for Kotlin/Native and multiplatform projects. 

## **Compatibility of the kapt compiler plugin with the K2 compiler** 

You can use the kapt plugin in your project along with the K2 compiler, but with some restrictions. Despite setting `languageVersion` to `2.0` , the kapt compiler plugin still utilizes the old compiler. 

If you execute the kapt compiler plugin within a project where `languageVersion` is set to `2.0` , kapt will automatically switch to `1.9` and disable specific version compatibility checks. This behavior is equivalent to including the following command arguments: 

- 

   - `-Xskip-metadata-version-check` 

- 

   - `-Xskip-prerelease-check` 

- 

- `-Xallow-unstable-dependencies` 

These checks are exclusively disabled for kapt tasks. All other compilation tasks will continue to utilize the new K2 compiler. 

If you encounter any issues when using kapt with the K2 compiler, please report them to our issue tracker. 

1877 

## **Try the K2 compiler in your project** 

Starting with 1.9.0 and until the release of Kotlin 2.0, you can easily test the K2 compiler by adding the 

`kotlin.experimental.tryK2=true` Gradle property to your `gradle.properties` file. You can also run the following command: 

```
./gradlew assemble -Pkotlin.experimental.tryK2=true
```

This Gradle property automatically sets the language version to 2.0 and updates the build report with the number of Kotlin tasks compiled using the K2 compiler compared to the current compiler: 

```
##### 'kotlin.experimental.tryK2' results (Kotlin/Native not checked) #####
:lib:compileKotlin: 2.0 language version
:app:compileKotlin: 2.0 language version
##### 100% (2/2) tasks have been compiled with Kotlin 2.0 #####
```

## **Gradle build reports** 

Gradle build reports now show whether the current or the K2 compiler was used to compile the code. In Kotlin 1.9.0, you can see this information in your Gradle build scans: 

**==> picture [524 x 147] intentionally omitted <==**

Gradle build scan - K1 

**==> picture [524 x 206] intentionally omitted <==**

Gradle build scan - K2 

You can also find the Kotlin version used in the project right in the build report: 

1878 

```
Task info:
  Kotlin language version: 1.9
```

If you use Gradle 8.0, you might come across some problems with build reports, especially when Gradle configuration caching is enabled. This is a known issue, fixed in Gradle 8.1 and later. 

## **Current K2 compiler limitations** 

Enabling K2 in your Gradle project comes with certain limitations that can affect projects using Gradle versions below 8.3 in the following cases: 

- Compilation of source code from `buildSrc` . 

- 

   - Compilation of Gradle plugins in included builds. 

- Compilation of other Gradle plugins if they are used in projects with Gradle versions below 8.3. 

- Building Gradle plugin dependencies. 

- If you encounter any of the problems mentioned above, you can take the following steps to address them: 

- Set the language version for `buildSrc` , any Gradle plugins, and their dependencies: 

```
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        languageVersion.set(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.KOTLIN_1_9)
        apiVersion.set(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.KOTLIN_1_9)
}
}
```

- Update the Gradle version in your project to 8.3 when it becomes available. 

## **Leave your feedback on the new K2 compiler** 

We'd appreciate any feedback you may have! 

- Provide your feedback directly to K2 developers Kotlin's Slack – get an invite and join the #k2-early-adopters channel. 

- Report any problems you've faced with the new K2 compiler on our issue tracker. 

- Enable the **Send usage statistics** option to allow JetBrains to collect anonymous data about K2 usage. 

## **Language** 

In Kotlin 1.9.0, we're stabilizing some new language features that were introduced earlier: 

- Replacement of the enum class values function 

- 

   - Data object symmetry with data classes 

- 

- Support for secondary constructors with bodies in inline value classes 

1879 

## **Stable replacement of the enum class values function** 

In 1.8.20, the `entries` property for enum classes was introduced as an Experimental feature. The `entries` property is a modern and performant replacement for the synthetic `values()` function. In 1.9.0, the `entries` property is Stable. 

The `values()` function is still supported, but we recommend that you use the `entries` property instead. 

```
enumclassColor(val colorName: String,val rgb: String){
RED("Red","#FF0000"),
ORANGE("Orange","#FF7F00"),
YELLOW("Yellow","#FFFF00")
}
funfindByRgb(rgb: String): Color?= Color.entries.find{ it.rgb /= rgb }
```

For more information about the `entries` property for enum classes, see What's new in Kotlin 1.8.20. 

## **Stable data objects for symmetry with data classes** 

Data object declarations, which were introduced in Kotlin 1.8.20, are now Stable. This includes the functions added for symmetry with data classes: `toString()` , `equals()` , and `hashCode()` . 

This feature is particularly useful with `sealed` hierarchies (like a `sealed class` or `sealed interface` hierarchy), because `data object` declarations can be used conveniently alongside `data class` declarations. In this example, declaring `EndOfFile` as a `data object` instead of a plain `object` means that it automatically has a `toString()` function without the need to override it manually. This maintains symmetry with the accompanying data class definitions. 

```
sealedinterface ReadResult
dataclassNumber(val number: Int): ReadResult
dataclassText(val text: String): ReadResult
dataobject EndOfFile : ReadResult
funmain(){
println(Number(7))// Number(number=7)
println(EndOfFile)// EndOfFile
}
```

For more information, see What's new in Kotlin 1.8.20. 

## **Support for secondary constructors with bodies in inline value classes** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.0, the use of secondary constructors with bodies in inline value classes is available by default: 

1880 

```
@JvmInline
value classPerson(privateval fullName: String){
// Allowed since Kotlin 1.4.30:
init{
check(fullName.isNotBlank()){
"Full name shouldn't be empty"
}
}
// Allowed by default since Kotlin 1.9.0:
constructor(name: String, lastName: String):this("$name$lastName"){
check(lastName.isNotBlank()){
"Last name shouldn't be empty"
}
}
}
```

Previously, Kotlin allowed only public primary constructors in inline classes. As a result, it was impossible to encapsulate underlying values or create an inline class that would represent some constrained values. 

As Kotlin developed, these issues were fixed. Kotlin 1.4.30 lifted restrictions on `init` blocks and then Kotlin 1.8.20 came with a preview of secondary constructors with bodies. They are now available by default. Learn more about the development of Kotlin inline classes in this KEEP. 

## **Kotlin/JVM** 

Starting with version 1.9.0, the compiler can generate classes with a bytecode version corresponding to JVM 20. In addition, the deprecation of the `JvmDefault` annotation and legacy `-Xjvm-default` modes continues. 

## **Deprecation of JvmDefault annotation and legacy -Xjvm-default modes** 

Starting from Kotlin 1.5, the usage of the `JvmDefault` annotation has been deprecated in favor of the newer `- Xjvm-default` modes: `all` and `all-compatibility` . With the introduction of 

`JvmDefaultWithoutCompatibility` in Kotlin 1.4 and `JvmDefaultWithCompatibility` in Kotlin 1.6, these modes offer comprehensive control over the generation of `DefaultImpls` classes, ensuring seamless compatibility with older Kotlin code. 

Consequently in Kotlin 1.9.0, the `JvmDefault` annotation no longer holds any significance and has been marked as deprecated, resulting in an error. It will eventually be removed from Kotlin. 

## **Kotlin/Native** 

Among other improvements, this release brings further advancements to the Kotlin/Native memory manager that should enhance its robustness and performance: 

- Preview of custom memory allocator 

- Objective-C or Swift object deallocation hook on the main thread 

- 

   - No object initialization when accessing constant values in Kotlin/Native 

- Ability to configure standalone mode for iOS simulator tests 

- 

- Library linkage in Kotlin/Native 

1881 

## **Preview of custom memory allocator** 

Kotlin 1.9.0 introduces the preview of a custom memory allocator. Its allocation system improves the runtime performance of the Kotlin/Native memory manager. 

The current object allocation system in Kotlin/Native uses a general-purpose allocator that doesn't have the functionality for efficient garbage collection. To compensate, it maintains thread-local linked lists of all allocated objects before the garbage collector (GC) merges them into a single list, which can be iterated during sweeping. This approach comes with several performance downsides: 

- The sweeping order lacks memory locality and often results in scattered memory access patterns, leading to potential performance issues. 

- Linked lists require additional memory for each object, increasing memory usage, particularly when dealing with many small objects. 

- The single list of allocated objects makes it challenging to parallelize sweeping, which can cause memory usage problems when mutator threads allocate objects faster than the GC thread can collect them. 

To address these issues, Kotlin 1.9.0 introduces a preview of the custom allocator. It divides system memory into pages, allowing independent sweeping in consecutive order. Each allocation becomes a memory block within a page, and the page keeps track of block sizes. Different page types are optimized for various allocation sizes. The consecutive arrangement of memory blocks ensures efficient iteration through all allocated blocks. 

When a thread allocates memory, it searches for a suitable page based on the allocation size. Threads maintain a set of pages for different size categories. Typically, the current page for a given size can accommodate the allocation. If not, the thread requests a different page from the shared allocation space. This page may already be available, require sweeping, or should be created first. 

The new allocator allows having multiple independent allocation spaces simultaneously, which will allow the Kotlin team to experiment with different page layouts to improve performance even further. 

For more information on the design of the new allocator, see this README. 

## **How to enable** 

Add the `-Xallocator=custom` compiler option: 

```
kotlin {
macosX64("native"){
        binaries.executable()
        compilations.configureEach{
            compilerOptions.configure{
                freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xallocator=custom")
}
}
}
}
```

## **Leave feedback** 

We would appreciate your feedback in YouTrack to improve the custom allocator. 

1882 

## **Objective-C or Swift object deallocation hook on the main thread** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.0, the Objective-C or Swift object deallocation hook is called on the main thread if the object is passed to Kotlin there. The way the Kotlin/Native memory manager previously handled references to Objective-C objects could lead to memory leaks. We believe the new behavior should improve the robustness of the memory manager. 

Consider an Objective-C object that is referenced in Kotlin code, for example, when passed as an argument, returned by a function, or retrieved from a collection. In this case, Kotlin creates its own object that holds the reference to the Objective-C object. When the Kotlin object gets deallocated, the Kotlin/Native runtime calls the `objc_release` function that releases that Objective-C reference. 

Previously, the Kotlin/Native memory manager ran `objc_release` on a special GC thread. If it's the last object reference, the object gets deallocated. Issues could come up when Objective-C objects have custom deallocation hooks like the `dealloc` method in Objective-C or the `deinit` block in Swift, and these hooks expect to be called on a specific thread. 

Since hooks for objects on the main thread usually expect to be called there, Kotlin/Native runtime now calls `objc_release` on the main thread as well. It should cover the cases when the Objective-C object was passed to Kotlin on the main thread, creating a Kotlin peer object there. This only works if the main dispatch queue is processed, which is the case for regular UI applications. When it's not the main queue or the object was passed to Kotlin on a thread other than main, the `objc_release` is called on a special GC thread as before. 

## **How to opt out** 

In case you face issues, you can disable this behavior in your `gradle.properties` file with the following option: 

```
kotlin.native.binary.objcDisposeOnMain=false
```

Don't hesitate to report such cases to our issue tracker. 

## **No object initialization when accessing constant values in Kotlin/Native** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.0, the Kotlin/Native backend doesn't initialize objects when accessing `const val` fields: 

```
object MyObject {
init{
println("side effect!")
}
constval y =1
}
funmain(){
println(MyObject.y)// No initialization at first
val x = MyObject    // Initialization occurs
println(x.y)
}
```

The behavior is now unified with Kotlin/JVM, where the implementation is consistent with Java and objects are never initialized in this case. You can also expect some performance improvements in your Kotlin/Native projects thanks to this change. 

1883 

## **Ability to configure standalone mode for iOS simulator tests in Kotlin/Native** 

By default, when running iOS simulator tests for Kotlin/Native, the `--standalone` flag is used to avoid manual simulator booting and shutdown. In 1.9.0, you can now configure whether this flag is used in a Gradle task via the `standalone` property. By default, the `--standalone` flag is used so standalone mode is enabled. 

Here is an example of how to disable standalone mode in your `build.gradle.kts` file: 

```
tasks.withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.native.tasks.KotlinNativeSimulatorTest>
().configureEach{
    standalone.set(false)
}
```

- If you disable standalone mode, you must boot the simulator manually. To boot your simulator from CLI, you can use the following command: 

```
/usr/bin/xcrun simctl boot <DeviceId>
```

## **Library linkage in Kotlin/Native** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.0, the Kotlin/Native compiler treats linkage issues in Kotlin libraries the same way as Kotlin/JVM. You might face such issues if the author of one third-party Kotlin library makes an incompatible change in experimental APIs that another third-party Kotlin library consumes. 

Now builds don't fail during compilation in case of linkage issues between third-party Kotlin libraries. Instead, you'll only encounter these errors in run time, exactly as on the JVM. 

The Kotlin/Native compiler reports warnings every time it detects issues with library linkage. You can find such warnings in your compilation logs, for example: 

```
No function found for symbol 'org.samples/MyRemovedClass.doSomething|3657632771909858561[0]'
```

```
Can not get instance of singleton 'MyEnumClass.REMOVED_ENTRY': No enum entry found for symbol
'org.samples/MyEnumClass.REMOVED_ENTRY|null[0]'
```

```
Function 'getMyRemovedClass' can not be called: Function uses unlinked class symbol
'org.samples/MyRemovedClass|null[0]'
```

You can further configure or even disable this behavior in your projects: 

- If you don't want to see these warnings in your compilation logs, suppress them with the `-Xpartial-linkageloglevel=INFO` compiler option. 

- It's also possible to raise the severity of reported warnings to compilation errors with `-Xpartial-linkageloglevel=ERROR` . In this case, the compilation fails and you'll see all the errors in the compilation log. Use this option to examine the linkage issues more closely. 

- If you face unexpected problems with this feature, you can always opt out with the `-Xpartiallinkage=disable` compiler option. Don't hesitate to report such cases to our issue tracker. 

1884 

```
// An example of passing compiler options via Gradle build file.
kotlin {
macosX64("native"){
        binaries.executable()
        compilations.configureEach{
            compilerOptions.configure{
// To suppress linkage warnings:
                freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xpartial-linkage-loglevel=INFO")
// To raise linkage warnings to errors:
                freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xpartial-linkage-loglevel=ERROR")
// To disable the feature completely:
                freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xpartial-linkage=disable")
}
}
}
}
```

## **Compiler option for C interop implicit integer conversions** 

We have introduced a compiler option for C interop that allows you to use implicit integer conversions. After careful consideration, we've introduced this compiler option to prevent unintentional use as this feature still has room for improvement and our aim is to have an API of the highest quality. 

In this code sample an implicit integer conversion allows `options = 0` even though `options` has unsigned type `UInt` and `0` is signed. 

```
val today =NSDate()
val tomorrow = NSCalendar.currentCalendar.dateByAddingUnit(
    unit = NSCalendarUnitDay,
    value =1,
    toDate = today,
    options =0
)
```

`-` To use implicit conversions with native interop libraries, use the `XXLanguage:+ImplicitSignedToUnsignedIntegerConversion` compiler option. 

You can configure this in your Gradle `build.gradle.kts` file: 

```
tasks.withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinNativeCompile>().configureEach{
    compilerOptions.freeCompilerArgs.addAll(
```

```
"-XXLanguage:+ImplicitSignedToUnsignedIntegerConversion"
)
}
```

## **Kotlin Multiplatform** 

Kotlin Multiplatform has received some notable updates in 1.9.0 designed to improve your developer experience: 

- Changes to Android target support 

- 

## New Android source set layout enabled by default 

- 

## Preview of the Gradle configuration cache in multiplatform projects 

1885 

## **Changes to Android target support** 

We continue our efforts to stabilize Kotlin Multiplatform. An essential step is to provide first-class support for the Android target. We're excited to announce that in the future, the Android team from Google will provide its own Gradle plugin to support Android in Kotlin Multiplatform. 

To open the way for this new solution from Google, we're renaming the `android` block in the current Kotlin DSL in 1.9.0. Please change all the occurrences of the `android` block to `androidTarget` in your build scripts. This is a temporary change that is necessary to free the `android` name for the upcoming DSL from Google. 

The Google plugin will be the preferred way of working with Android in multiplatform projects. When it's ready, we'll provide the necessary migration instructions so that you'll be able to use the short `android` name as before. 

## **New Android source set layout enabled by default** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.0, the new Android source set layout is the default. It replaced the previous naming schema for directories, which was confusing in multiple ways. The new layout has a number of advantages: 

- Simplified type semantics – The new Android source layout provides clear and consistent naming conventions that help to distinguish between different types of source sets. 

- Improved source directory layout – With the new layout, the `SourceDirectories` arrangement becomes more coherent, making it easier to organize code and locate source files. 

- Clear naming schema for Gradle configurations – The schema is now more consistent and predictable in both `KotlinSourceSets` and `AndroidSourceSets` . 

The new layout requires the Android Gradle plugin version 7.0 or later and is supported in Android Studio 2022.3 and later. See our migration guide to make the necessary changes in your `build.gradle(.kts)` file. 

## **Preview of the Gradle configuration cache** 

Kotlin 1.9.0 comes with support for the Gradle configuration cache in multiplatform libraries. If you're a library author, you can already benefit from the improved build performance. 

The Gradle configuration cache speeds up the build process by reusing the results of the configuration phase for subsequent builds. The feature has become Stable since Gradle 8.1. To enable it, follow the instructions in the Gradle documentation. 

The Kotlin Multiplatform plugin still doesn't support the Gradle configuration cache with Xcode integration tasks or the Kotlin CocoaPods Gradle plugin. We expect to add this feature in future Kotlin releases. 

## **Kotlin/Wasm** 

The Kotlin team continues to experiment with the new Kotlin/Wasm target. This release introduces several performance and size-related optimizations, along with updates in JavaScript interop. 

## **Size-related optimizations** 

Kotlin 1.9.0 introduces significant size improvements for WebAssembly (Wasm) projects. Comparing two "Hello World" projects, the code footprint for Wasm in Kotlin 1.9.0 is now over 10 times smaller than in Kotlin 1.8.20. 

1886 

**==> picture [524 x 295] intentionally omitted <==**

Kotlin/Wasm size-related optimizations 

These size optimizations result in more efficient resource utilization and improved performance when targeting Wasm platforms with Kotlin code. 

## **Updates in JavaScript interop** 

This Kotlin update introduces changes to the interoperability between Kotlin and JavaScript for Kotlin/Wasm. As Kotlin/Wasm is an Experimental feature, certain limitations apply to its interoperability. 

## **Restriction of Dynamic types** 

Starting with version 1.9.0, Kotlin no longer supports the use of `Dynamic` types in Kotlin/Wasm. This is now deprecated in favor of the new universal `JsAny` type, which facilitates JavaScript interoperability. 

For more details, see the Kotlin/Wasm interoperability with JavaScript documentation. 

## **Restriction of non-external types** 

Kotlin/Wasm supports conversions for specific Kotlin static types when passing values to and from JavaScript. These supported types include: 

- Primitives, such as signed numbers, `Boolean` , and `Char` . 

- `String` . 

- 

- Function types. 

Other types were passed without conversion as opaque references, leading to inconsistencies between JavaScript and Kotlin subtyping. 

To address this, Kotlin restricts JavaScript interop to a well-supported set of types. Starting from Kotlin 1.9.0, only external, primitive, string, and function types are supported in Kotlin/Wasm JavaScript interop. Furthermore, a 

1887 

separate explicit type called `JsReference` has been introduced to represent handles to Kotlin/Wasm objects that can be used in JavaScript interop. 

For more details, refer to the Kotlin/Wasm interoperability with JavaScript documentation. 

## **Kotlin/Wasm in Kotlin Playground** 

Kotlin Playground supports the Kotlin/Wasm target. You can write, run, and share your Kotlin code that targets the Kotlin/Wasm. Check it out! 

Using Kotlin/Wasm requires enabling experimental features in your browser. 

Learn more about how to enable these features. 

```
import kotlin.time.*
import kotlin.time.measureTime
funmain(){
println("Hello from Kotlin/Wasm!")
computeAck(3,10)
}
tailrecfunack(m: Int, n: Int): Int =when{
    m /=0/> n +1
    n /=0/>ack(m -1,1)
else/>ack(m -1,ack(m, n -1))
}
funcomputeAck(m: Int, n: Int){
var res =0
val t = measureTime {
        res =ack(m, n)
}
println()
println("ack($m, $n) = ${res}")
println("duration: ${t.inWholeNanoseconds /1e6} ms")
}
```

## **Kotlin/JS** 

This release introduces updates for Kotlin/JS, including the removal of the old Kotlin/JS compiler, Kotlin/JS Gradle plugin deprecation and Experimental support for ES2015: 

- Removal of the old Kotlin/JS compiler 

- Deprecation of the Kotlin/JS Gradle plugin 

- 

## Deprecation of external enum 

- 

## Experimental support for ES2015 classes and modules 

- Changed default destination of JS production distribution 

- Extract org.w3c declarations from stdlib-js 

Starting from version 1.9.0, partial library linkage is also enabled for Kotlin/JS. 

1888 

## **Removal of the old Kotlin/JS compiler** 

In Kotlin 1.8.0, we announced that the IR-based backend became Stable. Since then, not specifying the compiler has become an error, and using the old compiler leads to warnings. 

In Kotlin 1.9.0, using the old backend results in an error. Please migrate to the IR compiler. 

## **Deprecation of the Kotlin/JS Gradle plugin** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.0, the `kotlin-js` Gradle plugin is deprecated. We encourage you to use the `kotlinmultiplatform` Gradle plugin with the `js()` target instead. 

The functionality of the Kotlin/JS Gradle plugin essentially duplicated the `kotlin-multiplatform` plugin and shared the same implementation under the hood. This overlap created confusion and increased maintenance load on the Kotlin team. 

Refer to our Compatibility guide for Kotlin Multiplatform for migration instructions. If you find any issues that aren't covered in the guide, please report them to our issue tracker. 

## **Deprecation of external enum** 

In Kotlin 1.9.0, the use of external enums will be deprecated due to issues with static enum members like 

`entries` , that can't exist outside Kotlin. We recommend using an external sealed class with object subclasses instead: 

```
// Before
externalenumclass ExternalEnum { A, B }
// After
externalsealedclass ExternalEnum {
object A: ExternalEnum
object B: ExternalEnum
}
```

By switching to an external sealed class with object subclasses, you can achieve similar functionality to external enums while avoiding the problems associated with default methods. 

Starting from Kotlin 1.9.0, the use of external enums will be marked as deprecated. We encourage you to update your code to utilize the suggested external sealed class implementation for compatibility and future maintenance. 

## **Experimental support for ES2015 classes and modules** 

This release introduces Experimental support for ES2015 modules and generation of ES2015 classes: 

- Modules offer a way to simplify your codebase and improve maintainability. 

- Classes allow you to incorporate object-oriented programming (OOP) principles, resulting in cleaner and more intuitive code. 

To enable these features, update your `build.gradle.kts` file accordingly: 

1889 

```
// build.gradle.kts
kotlin {
js(IR){
useEsModules()// Enables ES2015 modules
browser()
}
}
// Enables ES2015 classes generation
tasks.withType<KotlinJsCompile>().configureEach{
    kotlinOptions {
        useEsClasses =true
}
}
```

Learn more about ES2015 (ECMAScript 2015, ES6) in the official documentation. 

## **Changed default destination of JS production distribution** 

Prior to Kotlin 1.9.0, the distribution target directory was `build/distributions` . However, this is a common directory for Gradle archives. To resolve this issue, we've changed the default distribution target directory in Kotlin 1.9.0 to: `build/dist/<targetName>/<binaryName>` . 

For example, `productionExecutable` was in `build/distributions` . In Kotlin 1.9.0, it's in `build/dist/js/productionExecutable` . 

If you have a pipeline in place that uses the results of these builds, make sure to update the directory. 

## **Extract org.w3c declarations from stdlib-js** 

Since Kotlin 1.9.0, the `stdlib-js` no longer includes `org.w3c` declarations. Instead, these declarations have been moved to a separate Gradle dependency. When you add the Kotlin Multiplatform Gradle plugin to your 

`build.gradle.kts` file, these declarations will be automatically included in your project, similar to the standard library. 

There is no need for any manual action or migration. The necessary adjustments will be handled automatically. 

## **Gradle** 

Kotlin 1.9.0 comes with new Gradle compiler options and a lot more: 

- Removed classpath property 

- New Gradle compiler options 

- Project-level compiler options for Kotlin/JVM 

- Compiler option for Kotlin/Native module name 

- Separate compiler plugins for official Kotlin libraries 

- 

## Incremented minimum supported version 

- kapt doesn't cause eager task creation 

- 

## Programmatic configuration of the JVM target validation mode 

1890 

## **Removed classpath property** 

In Kotlin 1.7.0, we announced the start of a deprecation cycle for the `KotlinCompile` task's property: `classpath` . The deprecation level was raised to `ERROR` in Kotlin 1.8.0. In this release, we've finally removed the `classpath` property. All compile tasks should now use the `libraries` input for a list of libraries required for compilation. 

## **New compiler options** 

The Kotlin Gradle plugin now provides new properties for opt-ins and the compiler's progressive mode. 

- To opt in to new APIs, you can now use the `optIn` property and pass a list of strings like: `optIn.set(listOf(a, b, c))` . 

- To enable progressive mode, use `progressiveMode.set(true)` . 

## **Project-level compiler options for Kotlin/JVM** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.0, a new `compilerOptions` block is available inside the `kotlin` configuration block: 

```
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        jvmTarget.set(JVM.Target_11)
}
}
```

It makes configuring compiler options much easier. However, it is important to note some important details: 

- This configuration only works on the project level. 

- For the Android plugin, this block configures the same object as: 

```
android {
    kotlinOptions {}
}
```

- The `android.kotlinOptions` and `kotlin.compilerOptions` configuration blocks override each other. The last (lowest) block in the build file always takes effect. 

- If `moduleName` is configured on the project level, its value could be changed when passed to the compiler. It's not the case for the `main` compilation, but for other types, for example, test sources, the Kotlin Gradle plugin will add the `_test` suffix. 

- The configuration inside the `tasks.withType<KotlinJvmCompile>().configureEach {}` (or `tasks.named<KotlinJvmCompile>("compileKotlin") { }` ) overrides both `kotlin.compilerOptions` and `android.kotlinOptions` . 

## **Compiler option for Kotlin/Native module name** 

The Kotlin/Native `module-name` compiler option is now easily available in the Kotlin Gradle plugin. 

This option specifies a name for the compilation module and can also be used for adding a name prefix for declarations exported to Objective-C. 

You can now set the module name directly in the `compilerOptions` block of your Gradle build files: 

1891 

## **Kotlin** 

```
tasks.named<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinNativeCompile>("compileKotlinLinuxX64"){
    compilerOptions {
```

```
        moduleName.set("my-module-name")
}
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
tasks.named("compileKotlinLinuxX64", org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinNativeCompile.class){
    compilerOptions {
        moduleName ="my-module-name"
}
}
```

## **Separate compiler plugins for official Kotlin libraries** 

Kotlin 1.9.0 introduces separate compiler plugins for its official libraries. Previously, compiler plugins were embedded into their corresponding Gradle plugins. This could cause compatibility issues in case the compiler plugin was compiled against a Kotlin version higher than the Gradle build's Kotlin runtime version. 

Now compiler plugins are added as separate dependencies, so you'll no longer face compatibility issues with older Gradle versions. Another major advantage of the new approach is that new compiler plugins can be used with other build systems like Bazel. 

Here's the list of new compiler plugins we're now publishing to Maven Central: 

- kotlin-atomicfu-compiler-plugin 

- kotlin-allopen-compiler-plugin 

- kotlin-lombok-compiler-plugin 

- 

   - kotlin-noarg-compiler-plugin 

- 

   - kotlin-sam-with-receiver-compiler-plugin 

- kotlinx-serialization-compiler-plugin 

Every plugin has its `-embeddable` counterpart, for example, `kotlin-allopen-compiler-plugin-embeddable` is designed for working with the `kotlin-compiler-embeddable` artifact, the default option for scripting artifacts. 

Gradle adds these plugins as compiler arguments. You don't need to make any changes to your existing projects. 

## **Incremented minimum supported version** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.9.0, the minimum supported Android Gradle plugin version is 4.2.2. 

See the Kotlin Gradle plugin's compatibility with available Gradle versions in our documentation. 

1892 

## **kapt doesn't cause eager task creation in Gradle** 

Prior to 1.9.0, the kapt compiler plugin caused eager task creation by requesting the configured instance of the Kotlin compilation task. This behavior has been fixed in Kotlin 1.9.0. If you use the default configuration for your `build.gradle.kts` file then your setup is not affected by this change. 

- If you use a custom configuration, your setup will be adversely affected. For example, if you have modified the `KotlinJvmCompile` task using Gradle's tasks API, you must similarly modify the `KaptGenerateStubs` task in your build script. 

For example, if your script has the following configuration for the `KotlinJvmCompile` task: 

```
tasks.named<KotlinJvmCompile>("compileKotlin"){// Your custom configuration }
```

In this case, you need to make sure that the same modification is included as part of the `KaptGenerateStubs` task: 

```
tasks.named<KaptGenerateStubs>("kaptGenerateStubs"){// Your custom configuration }
```

For more information, see our YouTrack ticket. 

## **Programmatic configuration of the JVM target validation mode** 

Before Kotlin 1.9.0, there was only one way to adjust the detection of JVM target incompatibility between Kotlin and Java. You had to set `kotlin.jvm.target.validation.mode=ERROR` in your `gradle.properties` for the whole project. 

You can now also configure it on the task level in your `build.gradle.kts` file: 

```
tasks.named<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinJvmCompile>("compileKotlin"){
    jvmTargetValidationMode.set(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.jvm.JvmTargetValidationMode.WARNING)
}
```

## **Standard library** 

Kotlin 1.9.0 has some great improvements for the standard library: 

- The `..<` operator and time API are Stable. 

- The Kotlin/Native standard library has been thoroughly reviewed and updated 

- The `@Volatile` annotation can be used on more platforms 

- There's a **common** function to get a regex capture group by name 

- 

- The `HexFormat` class has been introduced to format and parse hexadecimals 

## **Stable ..< operator for open-ended ranges** 

The new `..<` operator for open-ended ranges that was introduced in Kotlin 1.7.20 and became Stable in 1.8.0. In 1.9.0, the standard library API for working with open-ended ranges is also Stable. 

1893 

Our research shows that the new `..<` operator makes it easier to understand when an open-ended range is declared. If you use the `until` infix function, it's easy to make the mistake of assuming that the upper bound is included. 

Here is an example using the `until` function: 

```
funmain(){
for(number in2 until 10){
if(number %2/=0){
print("$number ")
}
}
// 2 4 6 8
}
```

And here is an example using the new `..<` operator: 

```
funmain(){
for(number in2<10){
if(number %2/=0){
print("$number ")
}
}
// 2 4 6 8
}
```

From IntelliJ IDEA version 2023.1.1, a new code inspection is available that highlights when you can use the `..<` operator. 

For more information about what you can do with this operator, see What's new in Kotlin 1.7.20. 

## **Stable time API** 

Since 1.3.50, we have previewed a new time measurement API. The duration part of the API became Stable in 1.6.0. In 1.9.0, the remaining time measurement API is Stable. 

The old time API provided the `measureTimeMillis` and `measureNanoTime` functions, which aren't intuitive to use. Although it is clear that they both measure time in different units, it isn't clear that `measureTimeMillis` uses a wall clock to measure time, whereas `measureNanoTime` uses a monotonic time source. The new time API resolves this and other issues to make the API more user friendly. 

With the new time API, you can easily: 

- Measure the time taken to execute some code using a monotonic time source with your desired time unit. 

- Mark a moment in time. 

- Compare and find the difference between two moments in time. 

- Check how much time has passed since a specific moment in time. 

- Check whether the current time has passed a specific moment in time. 

## **Measure code execution time** 

To measure the time taken to execute a block of code, use the `measureTime` inline function. 

1894 

To measure the time taken to execute a block of code **and** return the result of the block of code, use the `measureTimedValue` inline function. 

By default, both functions use a monotonic time source. However, if you want to use an elapsed real-time source, you can. For example, on Android the default time source `System.nanoTime()` only counts time while the device is active. It loses track of time when the device enters deep sleep. To keep track of time while the device is in deep sleep, you can create a time source that uses `SystemClock.elapsedRealtimeNanos()` instead: 

```
object RealtimeMonotonicTimeSource :AbstractLongTimeSource(DurationUnit.NANOSECONDS){
overridefunread(): Long = SystemClock.elapsedRealtimeNanos()
}
```

## **Mark and measure differences in time** 

To mark a specific moment in time, use the `TimeSource` interface and the `markNow()` function to create a `TimeMark` . To measure differences between `TimeMarks` from the same time source, use the subtraction `-` operator ( ): 

```
import kotlin.time.*
funmain(){
val timeSource = TimeSource.Monotonic
val mark1 = timeSource.markNow()
    Thread.sleep(500)// Sleep 0.5 seconds.
val mark2 = timeSource.markNow()
repeat(4){ n />
val mark3 = timeSource.markNow()
val elapsed1 = mark3 - mark1
val elapsed2 = mark3 - mark2
println("Measurement 1.${n +1}: elapsed1=$elapsed1, elapsed2=$elapsed2, diff=${elapsed1 -
elapsed2}")
}
// It's also possible to compare time marks with each other.
println(mark2 > mark1)// This is true, as mark2 was captured later than mark1.
}
```

To check if a deadline has passed or a timeout has been reached, use the `hasPassedNow()` and `hasNotPassedNow()` extension functions: 

1895 

```
import kotlin.time.*
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.seconds
```

```
funmain(){
val timeSource = TimeSource.Monotonic
val mark1 = timeSource.markNow()
val fiveSeconds: Duration =5.seconds
val mark2 = mark1 + fiveSeconds
// It hasn't been 5 seconds yet
println(mark2.hasPassedNow())
// false
// Wait six seconds
    Thread.sleep(6000)
println(mark2.hasPassedNow())
// true
}
```

## **The Kotlin/Native standard library's journey towards stabilization** 

As our standard library for Kotlin/Native continues to grow, we decided that it was time for a complete review to ensure that it meets our high standards. As part of this, we carefully reviewed **every** existing public signature. For each signature, we considered whether it: 

- Has a unique purpose. 

- Is consistent with other Kotlin APIs. 

- Has similar behavior to its counterpart for the JVM. 

- Is future-proof. 

Based on these considerations, we made one of the following decisions: 

- Made it Stable. 

- Made it Experimental. 

- Marked it as `private` . 

- Modified its behavior. 

- Moved it to a different location. 

- Deprecated it. 

- Marked it as obsolete. 

If an existing signature has been: 

- Moved to another package, then the signature still exists in the original package but it's now deprecated with deprecation level: `WARNING` . IntelliJ IDEA will automatically suggest replacements upon code inspection. 

- 

   - Deprecated, then it's been deprecated with deprecation level: `WARNING` . 

- 

- Marked as obsolete, then you can keep using it, but it will be replaced in future. 

We won't list all of the results of the review here, but here are some of the highlights: 

1896 

- 

   - We stabilized the Atomics API. 

- We made `kotlinx.cinterop` Experimental and now require different opt-ins for the package to be used. For - 

- more information, see Explicit C interoperability stability guarantees. 

- 

   - We marked the `Worker` class and its related APIs as obsolete. 

- 

   - We marked the `BitSet` class as obsolete. 

- We marked all `public` APIs in the `kotlin.native.internal` package as `private` or moved them to other packages. 

## **Explicit C-interoperability stability guarantees** 

To maintain the high quality of our API, we decided to make `kotlinx.cinterop` Experimental. Although `kotlinx.cinterop` has been thoroughly tried and tested, there is still room for improvement before we are satisfied enough to make it Stable. We recommend that you use this API for interoperability but that you try to confine its use to specific areas in your projects. This will make your migration easier once we begin evolving this API to make it Stable. 

If you want to use C-like foreign APIs such as pointers, you must opt in with `@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi)` , otherwise your code won't compile. 

To use the remainder of `kotlinx.cinterop` , which covers Objective-C/Swift interoperability, you must opt in with `@OptIn(BetaInteropApi)` . If you try to use this API without the opt-in, your code will compile but the compiler will raise warnings that provide a clear explanation of what behavior you can expect. 

For more information about these annotations, see our source code for `Annotations.kt` . 

For more information on **all** of the changes as part of this review, see our YouTrack ticket. 

We'd appreciate any feedback you might have! You can provide your feedback directly by commenting on the ticket. 

## **Stable @Volatile annotation** 

If you annotate a `var` property with `@Volatile` , then the backing field is marked so that any reads or writes to this field are atomic, and writes are always made visible to other threads. 

Prior to 1.8.20, the `kotlin.jvm.Volatile` annotation was available in the common standard library. However, this annotation was only effective on the JVM. If you used it on other platforms, it was ignored, which led to errors. 

In 1.8.20, we introduced an experimental common annotation, `kotlin.concurrent.Volatile` , which you could preview in both the JVM and Kotlin/Native. 

In 1.9.0, `kotlin.concurrent.Volatile` is Stable. If you use `kotlin.jvm.Volatile` in your multiplatform projects, we recommend that you migrate to `kotlin.concurrent.Volatile` . 

## **New common function to get regex capture group by name** 

Prior to 1.9.0, every platform had its own extension to get a regular expression capture group by its name from a regular expression match. However there was no common function. It wasn't possible to have a common function prior to Kotlin 1.8.0, because the standard library still supported JVM targets 1.6 and 1.7. 

As of Kotlin 1.8.0, the standard library is compiled with JVM target 1.8. So in 1.9.0, there is now a **common** `groups` function that you can use to retrieve a group's contents by its name for a regular expression match. This is useful when you want to access the results of regular expression matches belonging to a particular capture group. 

1897 

Here is an example with a regular expression containing three capture groups: `city` , `state` , and `areaCode` . You can use these group names to access the matched values: 

```
funmain(){
val regex ="""\b(?<city>[A-Za-z\s]+),\s(?<state>[A-Z]{2}):\s(?<areaCode>[0-9]{3})\b""".toRegex()
val input ="Coordinates: Austin, TX: 123"
```

```
val match = regex.find(input)/!
println(match.groups["city"].value)
// Austin
println(match.groups["state"].value)
// TX
println(match.groups["areaCode"].value)
// 123
}
```

## **New path utility to create parent directories** 

In 1.9.0 there is a new `createParentDirectories()` extension function that you can use to create a new file with all the necessary parent directories. When you provide a file path to `createParentDirectories()` it checks whether the parent directories already exist. If they do, it does nothing. However, if they do not, it creates them for you. 

`createParentDirectories()` is particularly useful when you are copying files. For example, you can use it in combination with the `copyToRecursively()` function: 

```
sourcePath.copyToRecursively(
   destinationPath.createParentDirectories(),
   followLinks =false
)
```

## **New HexFormat class to format and parse hexadecimals** 

The new `HexFormat` class and its related extension functions are Experimental, and to use them, you can opt in with `@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi::class)` or the compiler argument `-optin=kotlin.ExperimentalStdlibApi` . 

In 1.9.0, the `HexFormat` class and its related extension functions are provided as an Experimental feature that allows you to convert between numerical values and hexadecimal strings. Specifically, you can use the extension functions to convert between hexadecimal strings and `ByteArrays` or other numeric types ( `Int` , `Short` , `Long` ). 

For example: 

```
println(93.toHexString())// "0000005d"
```

The `HexFormat` class includes formatting options that you can configure with the `HexFormat{}` builder. 

If you are working with `ByteArrays` you have the following options, which are configurable by properties: 

1898 

Option 

Description 

`upperCase` Whether hexadecimal digits are upper or lower case. By default, lower case is assumed. `upperCase = false` . 

`bytes.bytesPerLin` The maximum number of bytes per line. `e` 

`bytes.bytesPerGro` The maximum number of bytes per group. `up` 

`bytes.bytesSepara` The separator between bytes. Nothing by default. `tor` 

`bytes.bytesPrefi` The string that immediately precedes a two-digit hexadecimal representation of each `x` byte, nothing by default. 

`bytes.bytesSuffi` The string that immediately succeeds a two-digit hexadecimal representation of each `x` byte, nothing by default. 

For example: 

```
val macAddress ="001b638445e6".hexToByteArray()
```

```
// Use HexFormat{} builder to separate the hexadecimal string by colons
println(macAddress.toHexString(HexFormat { bytes.byteSeparator =":"}))
// "00:1b:63:84:45:e6"
```

```
// Use HexFormat{} builder to:
// * Make the hexadecimal string uppercase
// * Group the bytes in pairs
// * Separate by periods
val threeGroupFormat = HexFormat { upperCase =true; bytes.bytesPerGroup =2; bytes.groupSeparator =
"."}
```

```
println(macAddress.toHexString(threeGroupFormat))
// "001B.6384.45E6"
```

If you are working with numeric types, you have the following options, which are configurable by properties: 

Option Description `number.prefix` The prefix of a hexadecimal string, nothing by default. `number.suffix` The suffix of a hexadecimal string, nothing by default. `number.removeLead` Whether to remove leading zeros in a hexadecimal string. By default, no leading zeros are `ingZeros` removed. `number.removeLeadingZeros = false` 

1899 

For example: 

```
// Use HexFormat{} builder to parse a hexadecimal that has prefix: "0x".
println("0x3a".hexToInt(HexFormat { number.prefix ="0x"}))// "58"
```

## **Documentation updates** 

The Kotlin documentation has received some notable changes: 

- The tour of Kotlin – Learn the fundamentals of the Kotlin programming language with chapters including both theory and practice. 

- 

   - Android source set layout – Learn about the new Android source set layout. 

- Compatibility guide for Kotlin Multiplatform – Learn about the incompatible changes you might encounter while developing projects with Kotlin Multiplatform. 

- Kotlin Wasm – Learn about Kotlin/Wasm and how you can use it in your Kotlin Multiplatform projects. 

## **Install Kotlin 1.9.0** 

## **Check the IDE version** 

Intelli IDEA 2022.3.3 and 2023.1.1 automatically suggest updating the Kotlin plugin to version 1.9.0. IntelliJ IDEA 2023.2 will include the Kotlin 1.9.0 plugin. 

Android Studio Giraffe (223) and Hedgehog (231) will support Kotlin 1.9.0 in their upcoming releases. 

The new command-line compiler is available for download on the GitHub release page. 

## **Configure Gradle settings** 

To download Kotlin artifacts and dependencies, update your `settings.gradle(.kts)` file to use the Maven Central repository: 

```
pluginManagement {
    repositories {
mavenCentral()
gradlePluginPortal()
}
}
```

If the repository is not specified, Gradle uses the sunset JCenter repository, which could lead to issues with Kotlin artifacts. 

## **Compatibility guide for Kotlin 1.9.0** 

Kotlin 1.9.0 is a feature release and can, therefore, bring changes that are incompatible with your code written for earlier versions of the language. Find the detailed list of these changes in the Compatibility guide for Kotlin 1.9.0. 

1900 

