With `compareBy()` , the length comparator from the example above looks like this: 

```
funmain(){
//sampleStart
println(listOf("aaa","bb","c").sortedWith(compareBy { it.length }))
}
```

You can also define an order based on multiple criteria. For example, to sort strings by their length and alphabetically when the lengths are equal, you can write: 

```
funmain(){
val sortedStrings =listOf("aaa","bb","c","b","a","aa","ccc")
.sortedWith{ a, b />
when(val compareLengths = a.length.compareTo(b.length)){
0/> a.compareTo(b)
else/> compareLengths
}
}
println(sortedStrings)
// [a, b, c, aa, bb, aaa, ccc]
}
```

Since sorting by multiple criteria is a common scenario, the Kotlin standard library provides the `.thenBy()` function that you can use to add a secondary sorting rule. 

For example, you can combine `compareBy()` with `.thenBy()` to sort strings by their length first and alphabetically second, just like in the previous example: 

```
funmain(){
val sortedStrings =listOf("aaa","bb","c","b","a","aa","ccc")
.sortedWith(compareBy<String>{ it.length }.thenBy{ it })
println(sortedStrings)
// [a, b, c, aa, bb, aaa, ccc]
}
```

The Kotlin collections package provides functions for sorting collections in natural, custom, and even random orders. On this page, we'll describe sorting functions that apply to read-only collections. These functions return their result as a new collection containing the elements of the original collection in the requested order. To learn about functions for sorting mutable collections in place, see the List-specific operations. 

## **Natural order** 

The basic functions `.sorted()` and `.sortedDescending()` return elements of a collection sorted into ascending and descending sequence according to their natural order. These functions apply to collections of `Comparable` elements. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
println("Sorted ascending: ${numbers.sorted()}")
println("Sorted descending: ${numbers.sortedDescending()}")
}
```

1101 

## **Custom orders** 

For sorting in custom orders or sorting non-comparable objects, there are the functions `.sortedBy()` and `.sortedByDescending()` . They take a selector function that maps collection elements to `Comparable` values and sort the collection in natural order of that values. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
val sortedNumbers = numbers.sortedBy{ it.length }
println("Sorted by length ascending: $sortedNumbers")
val sortedByLast = numbers.sortedByDescending{ it.last()}
println("Sorted by the last letter descending: $sortedByLast")
}
```

To define a custom order for the collection sorting, you can provide your own `Comparator` . To do this, call the `.sortedWith()` extension function passing in your `Comparator` . With this function, sorting strings by their length looks like this: 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
println("Sorted by length ascending: ${numbers.sortedWith(compareBy { it.length })}")
}
```

## **Check sorted order** 

You can use the following extension functions to check whether elements already follow a specified order: 

- 

   - `.isSorted()` 

- 

   - `.isSortedDescending()` 

- 

   - `.isSortedWith(comparator)` 

- 

   - `.isSortedBy(selector)` 

- 

- `.isSortedByDescending(selector)` 

These extension functions return `true` if the elements are in the specified order or if there are fewer than two elements. They return `false` and stop checking as soon as they find an out-of-order pair. 

For collections without a guaranteed iteration order, such as `HashSet` , the result may vary across calls. The same applies to sequences that don't produce elements in a consistent order. To get the same result across calls, use these functions only on collections with a guaranteed iteration order, such as `List` . 

When checking `Double` and `Float` values, these functions treat `NaN` as greater than any other value and `-0.0` as less than `0.0` . Additionally, the `.isSortedBy()` and `.isSortedByDescending()` functions treat `null` selector results as less than any non-null value. 

When you call these functions on a sequence, the operation is terminal. It consumes the sequence to produce a `Boolean` value instead of returning another sequence. 

These sorted-order functions are also available for arrays, primitive arrays, and unsigned arrays. Unsigned arrays and operations on them are Experimental and require opt-in with the 

`@ExperimentalUnsignedTypes` annotation. 

1102 

Here's an example of checking sorted order with the `.isSorted()` and `.isSortedBy()` functions: 

```
dataclassUser(val name: String,val age: Int)
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(1,2,3,4)
println(numbers.isSorted())
// true
val users =listOf(
User("Alice",24),
User("Bob",31),
User("Charlie",29),
)
println(users.isSortedBy(User/:age))
// false
val descending =listOf(4,3,2,1)
println(descending.isSortedDescending())
// true
}
```

## **Reverse order** 

You can retrieve the collection in the reversed order using the `.reversed()` function. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
println(numbers.reversed())
}
```

The `.reversed()` extension function returns a new collection with the copies of the elements. So, if you change the original collection later, this won't affect the previously obtained results of `.reversed()` . 

Another reversing function - `.asReversed()` 

- returns a reversed view of the same collection instance, so it may be more lightweight and preferable than `.reversed()` if the original list is not going to change. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
val reversedNumbers = numbers.asReversed()
println(reversedNumbers)
}
```

If the original list is mutable, all its changes reflect in its reversed views and vice versa. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three","four")
val reversedNumbers = numbers.asReversed()
println(reversedNumbers)
    numbers.add("five")
println(reversedNumbers)
}
```

However, if the mutability of the list is unknown or the source is not a list at all, `.reversed()` is more preferable since its result is a copy that won't change in the future. 

1103 

## **Random order** 

Finally, there is a function that returns a new `List` containing the collection elements in a random order - `.shuffled()` . You can call it without arguments or with a `Random` object. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
println(numbers.shuffled())
}
```

## **Grouping** 

The Kotlin standard library provides extension functions for grouping collection elements. The basic function `groupBy()` takes a lambda function and returns a `Map` . In this map, each key is the lambda result, and the corresponding value is the `List` of elements on which this result is returned. This function can be used, for example, to group a list of `String` s by their first letter. 

You can also call `groupBy()` with a second lambda argument – a value transformation function. In the result map of `groupBy()` with two lambdas, the keys produced by `keySelector` function are mapped to the results of the value transformation function instead of the original elements. 

This example illustrates using the `groupBy()` function to group the strings by their first letter, iterating through the groups on the resulting `Map` with the `for` operator, and then transforming the values to uppercase using the `valueTransform` function: 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four","five")
// Groups the strings by their first letter using groupBy()
val groupedByFirstLetter = numbers.groupBy{ it.first().uppercase()}
println(groupedByFirstLetter)
// {O=[one], T=[two, three], F=[four, five]}
// Iterates through each group and prints the key and its associated values
for((key, value)in groupedByFirstLetter){
println("Key: $key, Values: $value")
}
// Key: O, Values: [one]
// Key: T, Values: [two, three]
// Key: F, Values: [four, five]
// Groups the strings by their first letter and transforms the values to uppercase
val groupedAndTransformed = numbers.groupBy(keySelector ={ it.first()}, valueTransform ={
it.uppercase()})
println(groupedAndTransformed)
// {o=[ONE], t=[TWO, THREE], f=[FOUR, FIVE]}
}
```

If you want to group elements and then apply an operation to all groups at one time, use the function 

`groupingBy()` . It returns an instance of the `Grouping` type. The `Grouping` instance lets you apply operations to all groups in a lazy manner: the groups are actually built right before the operation execution. 

Namely, `Grouping` supports the following operations: 

- `eachCount()` counts the elements in each group. 

1104 

- `fold()` and `reduce()` perform fold and reduce operations on each group as a separate collection and return 

- the results. 

- `aggregate()` applies a given operation subsequently to all the elements in each group and returns the result. 

- This is the generic way to perform any operations on a `Grouping` . Use it to implement custom operations when fold or reduce are not enough. 

You can use the `for` operator on the resulting `Map` to iterate through the groups created by the `groupingBy()` function. This allows you to access each key and the count of elements associated with that key. 

The following example demonstrates how to group strings by their first letter using the `groupingBy()` function, count the elements in each group, and then iterate through each group to print the key and count of elements: 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four","five")
// Groups the strings by their first letter using groupingBy() and counts the elements in each
group
val grouped = numbers.groupingBy{ it.first()}.eachCount()
// Iterates through each group and prints the key and its associated values
for((key, count)in grouped){
println("Key: $key, Count: $count")
// Key: o, Count: 1
// Key: t, Count: 2
// Key: f, Count: 2
}
}
```

## **Collection transformation operations** 

The Kotlin standard library provides a set of extension functions for collection transformations. These functions build new collections from existing ones based on the transformation rules provided. In this page, we'll give an overview of the available collection transformation functions. 

## **Map** 

The mapping transformation creates a collection from the results of a function on the elements of another collection. The basic mapping function is `map()` . It applies the given lambda function to each subsequent element and returns the list of the lambda results. The order of results is the same as the original order of elements. To apply a transformation that additionally uses the element index as an argument, use `mapIndexed()` . 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =setOf(1,2,3)
println(numbers.map{ it *3})
println(numbers.mapIndexed{ idx, value /> value * idx })
}
```

If the transformation produces `null` on certain elements, you can filter out the `null` s from the result collection by calling the `mapNotNull()` function instead of `map()` , or `mapIndexedNotNull()` instead of `mapIndexed()` . 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =setOf(1,2,3)
println(numbers.mapNotNull{if( it /=2)nullelse it *3})
println(numbers.mapIndexedNotNull{ idx, value />if(idx /=0)nullelse value * idx })
}
```

1105 

When transforming maps, you have two options: transform keys leaving values unchanged and vice versa. To apply a given transformation to keys, use `mapKeys()` ; in turn, `mapValues()` transforms values. Both functions use the transformations that take a map entry as an argument, so you can operate both its key and value. 

## **`fun`** `main() {` 

```
val numbersMap =mapOf("key1"to1,"key2"to2,"key3"to3,"key11"to11)
println(numbersMap.mapKeys{ it.key.uppercase()})
println(numbersMap.mapValues{ it.value + it.key.length })
}
```

## **Zip** 

Zipping transformation is building pairs from elements with the same positions in both collections. In the Kotlin standard library, this is done by the `zip()` extension function. 

When called on a collection or an array with another collection (or array) as an argument, `zip()` returns the `List` of `Pair` objects. The elements of the receiver collection are the first elements in these pairs. 

If the collections have different sizes, the result of the `zip()` is the smaller size; the last elements of the larger collection are not included in the result. 

`zip()` can also be called in the infix form `a zip b` . 

```
funmain(){
val colors =listOf("red","brown","grey")
val animals =listOf("fox","bear","wolf")
println(colors zip animals)
val twoAnimals =listOf("fox","bear")
println(colors.zip(twoAnimals))
}
```

You can also call `zip()` with a transformation function that takes two parameters: the receiver element and the argument element. In this case, the result `List` contains the return values of the transformation function called on pairs of the receiver and the argument elements with the same positions. 

```
funmain(){
val colors =listOf("red","brown","grey")
val animals =listOf("fox","bear","wolf")
println(colors.zip(animals){ color, animal />"The ${animal.replaceFirstChar{ it.uppercase()}}
is $color"})
}
```

When you have a `List` of `Pair` s, you can do the reverse transformation – unzipping – that builds two lists from these pairs: 

- The first list contains the first elements of each `Pair` in the original list. 

- 

- The second list contains the second elements. 

To unzip a list of pairs, call `unzip()` . 

```
funmain(){
val numberPairs =listOf("one"to1,"two"to2,"three"to3,"four"to4)
println(numberPairs.unzip())
}
```

1106 

## **Associate** 

Association transformations allow building maps from the collection elements and certain values associated with them. In different association types, the elements can be either keys or values in the association map. 

The basic association function `associateWith()` creates a `Map` in which the elements of the original collection are keys, and values are produced from them by the given transformation function. If two elements are equal, only the last one remains in the map. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
println(numbers.associateWith{ it.length })
}
```

For building maps with collection elements as values, there is the function `associateBy()` . It takes a function that returns a key based on an element's value. If two elements' keys are equal, only the last one remains in the map. 

`associateBy()` can also be called with a value transformation function. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
println(numbers.associateBy{ it.first().uppercaseChar()})
println(numbers.associateBy(keySelector ={ it.first().uppercaseChar()}, valueTransform ={
it.length }))
}
```

Another way to build maps in which both keys and values are somehow produced from collection elements is the function `associate()` . It takes a lambda function that returns a `Pair` : the key and the value of the corresponding map entry. 

Note that `associate()` produces short-living `Pair` objects which may affect the performance. Thus, `associate()` should be used when the performance isn't critical or it's more preferable than other options. 

An example of the latter is when a key and the corresponding value are produced from an element together. 

```
funmain(){
dataclassFullName(val firstName: String,val lastName: String)
funparseFullName(fullName: String): FullName {
val nameParts = fullName.split(" ")
if(nameParts.size /=2){
returnFullName(nameParts[0], nameParts[1])
}elsethrowException("Wrong name format")
}
val names =listOf("Alice Adams","Brian Brown","Clara Campbell")
println(names.associate{ name />parseFullName(name).let{ it.lastName to it.firstName }})
}
```

Here we call a transform function on an element first, and then build a pair from the properties of that function's result. 

1107 

## **Flatten** 

If you operate nested collections, you may find the standard library functions that provide flat access to nested collection elements useful. 

The first function is `flatten()` . You can call it on a collection of collections, for example, a `List` of `Set` s. The function returns a single `List` of all the elements of the nested collections. 

```
funmain(){
val numberSets =listOf(setOf(1,2,3),setOf(4,5,6),setOf(1,2))
println(numberSets.flatten())
}
```

Another function – `flatMap()` provides a flexible way to process nested collections. It takes a function that maps a collection element to another collection. As a result, `flatMap()` returns a single list of its return values on all the elements. So, `flatMap()` behaves as a subsequent call of `map()` (with a collection as a mapping result) and `flatten()` . 

```
dataclassStringContainer(val values: List<String>)
funmain(){
val containers =listOf(
StringContainer(listOf("one","two","three")),
StringContainer(listOf("four","five","six")),
StringContainer(listOf("seven","eight"))
)
println(containers.flatMap{ it.values })
}
```

## **String representation** 

If you need to retrieve the collection content in a readable format, use functions that transform the collections to strings: `joinToString()` and `joinTo()` . 

`joinToString()` builds a single `String` from the collection elements based on the provided arguments. `joinTo()` does the same but appends the result to the given `Appendable` object. 

When called with the parameters' default values, the functions return the result similar to calling `toString()` on the collection: a `String` of elements' string representations separated by commas with spaces. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
println(numbers)
println(numbers.joinToString())
val listString =StringBuffer("The list of numbers: ")
    numbers.joinTo(listString)
println(listString)
}
```

To build a custom string representation, you can specify its parameters in function arguments `separator` , `prefix` , and `postfix` . The resulting string will start with the `prefix` and end with the `postfix` . The `separator` will come after each element except the last. 

1108 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
println(numbers.joinToString(separator =" | ", prefix ="start: ", postfix =": end"))
}
```

For bigger collections, you may want to specify the `limit` – a number of elements that will be included into result. If the collection size exceeds the `limit` , all the other elements will be replaced with a single value of the `truncated` argument. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =(1/.100).toList()
println(numbers.joinToString(limit =10, truncated ="<//.>"))
}
```

Finally, to customize the representation of elements themselves, provide the `transform` function. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
println(numbers.joinToString{"Element: ${it.uppercase()}"})
}
```

## **Filtering collections** 

Filtering is one of the most popular tasks in collection processing. In Kotlin, filtering conditions are defined by predicates – lambda functions that take a collection element and return a boolean value: `true` means that the given element matches the predicate, `false` means the opposite. 

The standard library contains a group of extension functions that let you filter collections in a single call. These functions leave the original collection unchanged, so they are available for both mutable and read-only collections. To operate the filtering result, you should assign it to a variable or chain the functions after filtering. 

## **Filter by predicate** 

The basic filtering function is `filter()` . When called with a predicate, `filter()` returns the collection elements that match it. For both `List` and `Set` , the resulting collection is a `List` , for `Map` it's a `Map` as well. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
val longerThan3 = numbers.filter{ it.length >3}
println(longerThan3)
```

```
val numbersMap =mapOf("key1"to1,"key2"to2,"key3"to3,"key11"to11)
val filteredMap = numbersMap.filter{(key, value)/> key.endsWith("1")/& value >10}
println(filteredMap)
}
```

The predicates in `filter()` can only check the values of the elements. If you want to use element positions in the filter, use `filterIndexed()` . It takes a predicate with two arguments: the index and the value of an element. 

To filter collections by negative conditions, use `filterNot()` . It returns a list of elements for which the predicate yields `false` . 

1109 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
val filteredIdx = numbers.filterIndexed{ index, s />(index /=0)/&(s.length <5)}
val filteredNot = numbers.filterNot{ it.length /=3}
```

```
println(filteredIdx)
println(filteredNot)
}
```

There are also functions that narrow the element type by filtering elements of a given type: 

- `filterIsInstance()` returns collection elements of a given type. Being called on a `List<Any>` , `filterIsInstance<T>()` returns a `List<T>` , thus allowing you to call functions of the `T` type on its items. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(null,1,"two",3.0,"four")
println("All String elements in upper case:")
    numbers.filterIsInstance<String>().forEach{
println(it.uppercase())
}
}
```

- `filterNotNull()` returns all non-nullable elements. Being called on a `List<T?>` , `filterNotNull()` returns 

- a `List<T: Any>` , thus allowing you to treat the elements as non-nullable objects. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(null,"one","two",null)
    numbers.filterNotNull().forEach{
println(it.length)// length is unavailable for nullable Strings
}
}
```

## **Partition** 

Another filtering function – `partition()` – filters a collection by a predicate and keeps the elements that don't match it in a separate list. So, you have a `Pair` of `List` s as a return value: the first list containing elements that match the predicate and the second one containing everything else from the original collection. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
val(match, rest)= numbers.partition{ it.length >3}
println(match)
println(rest)
}
```

## **Test predicates** 

Finally, there are functions that simply test a predicate against collection elements: 

- 

   - `any()` returns `true` if at least one element matches the given predicate. 

- 

- `none()` returns `true` if none of the elements match the given predicate. 

1110 

- `all()` returns `true` if all elements match the given predicate. Note that `all()` returns `true` when called 

- with any valid predicate on an empty collection. Such behavior is known in logic as vacuous truth. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
println(numbers.any{ it.endsWith("e")})
println(numbers.none{ it.endsWith("a")})
println(numbers.all{ it.endsWith("e")})
println(emptyList<Int>().all{ it >5})// vacuous truth
}
```

`any()` and `none()` can also be used without a predicate: in this case they just check the collection emptiness. `any()` returns `true` if there are elements and `false` if there aren't; `none()` does the opposite. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
val empty = emptyList<String>()
println(numbers.any())
println(empty.any())
println(numbers.none())
println(empty.none())
}
```

## **Retrieve collection parts** 

The Kotlin standard library contains extension functions for retrieving parts of a collection. These functions provide a variety of ways to select elements for the result collection: listing their positions explicitly, specifying the result size, and others. 

## **Slice** 

`slice()` returns a list of the collection elements with given indices. The indices may be passed either as a range or as a collection of integer values. 

```
funmain(){
//sampleStart
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four","five","six")
println(numbers.slice(1/.3))
println(numbers.slice(0/.4 step 2))
println(numbers.slice(setOf(3,5,0)))
}
```

## **Take and drop** 

To get the specified number of elements starting from the first, use the `take()` function. For getting the last elements, use `takeLast()` . When called with a number larger than the collection size, both functions return the whole collection. 

1111 

To take all the elements except a given number of first or last elements, call the `drop()` and `dropLast()` functions respectively. 

## **`fun`** `main() {` 

```
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four","five","six")
println(numbers.take(3))
println(numbers.takeLast(3))
println(numbers.drop(1))
println(numbers.dropLast(5))
}
```

You can also use predicates to define the number of elements for taking or dropping. There are four functions similar to the ones described above: 

- `takeWhile()` is `take()` with a predicate: it takes the elements up to but excluding the first one not matching 

- the predicate. If the first collection element doesn't match the predicate, the result is empty. 

- `takeLastWhile()` is similar to `takeLast()` : it takes the range of elements matching the predicate from the 

- end of the collection. The first element of the range is the element next to the last element not matching the predicate. If the last collection element doesn't match the predicate, the result is empty; 

- `dropWhile()` is the opposite to `takeWhile()` with the same predicate: it returns the elements from the first 

- one not matching the predicate to the end. 

- `dropLastWhile()` is the opposite to `takeLastWhile()` with the same predicate: it returns the elements from 

- the beginning to the last one not matching the predicate. 

```
funmain(){
```

```
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four","five","six")
println(numbers.takeWhile{!it.startsWith('f')})
println(numbers.takeLastWhile{ it /="three"})
println(numbers.dropWhile{ it.length /=3})
println(numbers.dropLastWhile{ it.contains('i')})
}
```

## **Chunked** 

To break a collection into parts of a given size, use the `chunked()` function. `chunked()` takes a single argument – the size of the chunk – and returns a `List` of `List` s of the given size. The first chunk starts from the first element and contains the `size` elements, the second chunk holds the next `size` elements, and so on. The last chunk may have a smaller size. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =(0/.13).toList()
println(numbers.chunked(3))
}
```

You can also apply a transformation for the returned chunks right away. To do this, provide the transformation as a lambda function when calling `chunked()` . The lambda argument is a chunk of the collection. When `chunked()` is called with a transformation, the chunks are short-living `List` s that should be consumed right in that lambda. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =(0/.13).toList()
println(numbers.chunked(3){ it.sum()})// `it` is a chunk of the original collection
}
```

1112 

## **Windowed** 

You can retrieve all possible ranges of the collection elements of a given size. The function for getting them is called `windowed()` : it returns a list of element ranges that you would see if you were looking at the collection through a sliding window of the given size. Unlike `chunked()` , `windowed()` returns element ranges (windows) starting from each collection element. All the windows are returned as elements of a single `List` . 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four","five")
println(numbers.windowed(3))
}
```

`windowed()` provides more flexibility regarding parameters with default values: 

- `step` defines a distance between first elements of two adjacent windows. By default the value is 1, so the 

- result contains windows starting from all elements. If you increase the step to 2, you will receive only windows starting from odd elements: first, third, and so on. 

- `partialWindows` includes windows of smaller sizes that start from the elements at the end of the collection. 

- For example, if you request windows of three elements, you can't build them for the last two elements. Enabling `partialWindows` in this case includes two more lists of sizes 2 and 1. 

Finally, you can apply a transformation to the returned ranges right away. To do this, provide the transformation as a lambda function when calling `windowed()` . 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =(1/.10).toList()
println(numbers.windowed(3, step =2, partialWindows =true))
println(numbers.windowed(3){ it.sum()})
}
```

To build two-element windows, there is a separate function - `zipWithNext()` . It creates pairs of adjacent elements of the receiver collection. Note that `zipWithNext()` doesn't break the collection into pairs; it creates a `Pair` for each element except the last one, so its result on `[1, 2, 3, 4]` is `[[1, 2], [2, 3], [3, 4]]` , not `[[1, 2` ], `[3, 4]]` . `zipWithNext()` can be called with a transformation function as well; it should take two elements of the receiver collection as arguments. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four","five")
println(numbers.zipWithNext())
println(numbers.zipWithNext(){ s1, s2 /> s1.length > s2.length})
}
```

## **Retrieve single elements** 

Kotlin collections provide a set of functions for retrieving single elements from collections. Functions described on this page apply to both lists and sets. 

As the definition of list says, a list is an ordered collection. Hence, every element of a list has its position that you can use for referring. In addition to functions described on this page, lists offer a wider set of ways to retrieve and search for elements by indices. For more details, see List-specific operations. 

In turn, set is not an ordered collection by definition. However, the Kotlin `Set` stores elements in certain orders. These can be the order of insertion (in `LinkedHashSet` ), natural sorting order (in `SortedSet` ), or another order. 

1113 

The order of a set of elements can also be unknown. In such cases, the elements are still ordered somehow, so the functions that rely on the element positions still return their results. However, such results are unpredictable to the caller unless they know the specific implementation of `Set` used. 

## **Retrieve by position** 

For retrieving an element at a specific position, there is the function `elementAt()` . Call it with the integer number as an argument, and you'll receive the collection element at the given position. The first element has the position `0` , and the last one is `(size - 1)` . 

`elementAt()` is useful for collections that do not provide indexed access, or are not statically known to provide one. In case of `List` , it's more idiomatic to use indexed access operator ( `get()` or `[]` ). 

## **`fun`** `main() {` 

```
val numbers =linkedSetOf("one","two","three","four","five")
println(numbers.elementAt(3))
```

```
val numbersSortedSet =sortedSetOf("one","two","three","four")
println(numbersSortedSet.elementAt(0))// elements are stored in the ascending order
}
```

There are also useful aliases for retrieving the first and the last element of the collection: `first()` and `last()` . 

## **`fun`** `main() {` 

```
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four","five")
println(numbers.first())
println(numbers.last())
}
```

To avoid exceptions when retrieving element with non-existing positions, use safe variations of `elementAt()` : 

- `elementAtOrNull()` returns null when the specified position is out of the collection bounds. 

- `elementAtOrElse()` additionally takes a lambda function that maps an `Int` argument to an instance of the 

- collection element type. When called with an out-of-bounds position, the `elementAtOrElse()` returns the result of the lambda on the given value. 

## **`fun`** `main() {` 

```
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four","five")
println(numbers.elementAtOrNull(5))
println(numbers.elementAtOrElse(5){ index />"The value for index $index is undefined"})
}
```

## **Retrieve by condition** 

Functions `first()` and `last()` also let you search a collection for elements matching a given predicate. When you call `first()` with a predicate that tests a collection element, you'll receive the first element on which the predicate yields `true` . In turn, `last()` with a predicate returns the last element matching it. 

## **`fun`** `main() {` 

```
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four","five","six")
println(numbers.first{ it.length >3})
println(numbers.last{ it.startsWith("f")})
}
```

1114 

If no elements match the predicate, both functions throw exceptions. To avoid them, use `firstOrNull()` and `lastOrNull()` instead: they return `null` if no matching elements are found. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four","five","six")
println(numbers.firstOrNull{ it.length >6})
}
```

Use the aliases if their names suit your situation better: 

- 

   - `find()` instead of `firstOrNull()` 

- 

- `findLast()` instead of `lastOrNull()` 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(1,2,3,4)
println(numbers.find{ it %2/=0})
println(numbers.findLast{ it %2/=0})
}
```

## **Retrieve with selector** 

If you need to map the collection before retrieving the element, there is a function `firstNotNullOf()` . It combines 2 actions: 

- 

   - Maps the collection with the selector function 

- 

- Returns the first non-null value in the result 

`firstNotNullOf()` throws the `NoSuchElementException` if the resulting collection doesn't have a non-nullable element. Use the counterpart `firstNotNullOfOrNull()` to return null in this case. 

```
funmain(){
val list = listOf<Any>(0,"true",false)
// Converts each element to string and returns the first one that has required length
val longEnough = list.firstNotNullOf{ item /> item.toString().takeIf{ it.length /=4}}
println(longEnough)
}
```

## **Random element** 

If you need to retrieve an arbitrary element of a collection, call the `random()` function. You can call it without arguments or with a `Random` object as a source of the randomness. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(1,2,3,4)
println(numbers.random())
}
```

On empty collections, `random()` throws an exception. To receive `null` instead, use `randomOrNull()` 

1115 

## **Check element existence** 

To check the presence of an element in a collection, use the `contains()` function. It returns `true` if there is a collection element that `equals()` the function argument. You can call `contains()` in the operator form with the `in` keyword. 

To check the presence of multiple instances together at once, call `containsAll()` with a collection of these instances as an argument. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four","five","six")
println(numbers.contains("four"))
println("zero"in numbers)
println(numbers.containsAll(listOf("four","two")))
println(numbers.containsAll(listOf("one","zero")))
}
```

Additionally, you can check if the collection contains any elements by calling `isEmpty()` or `isNotEmpty()` . 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four","five","six")
println(numbers.isEmpty())
println(numbers.isNotEmpty())
val empty = emptyList<String>()
println(empty.isEmpty())
println(empty.isNotEmpty())
}
```

## **Collection operations overview** 

The Kotlin standard library offers a broad variety of functions for performing operations on collections. This includes simple operations, such as getting or adding elements, as well as more complex ones including search, sorting, filtering, transformations, and so on. 

## **Extension and member functions** 

Collection operations are declared in the standard library in two ways: member functions of collection interfaces and extension functions. 

Member functions define operations that are essential for a collection type. For example, `Collection` contains the function `isEmpty()` for checking its emptiness; `List` contains `get()` for index access to elements, and so on. 

When you create your own implementations of collection interfaces, you must implement their member functions. To make the creation of new implementations easier, use the skeletal implementations of collection interfaces from the standard library: `AbstractCollection` , `AbstractList` , `AbstractSet` , `AbstractMap` , and their mutable counterparts. 

Other collection operations are declared as extension functions. These are filtering, transformation, ordering, and other collection processing functions. 

1116 

## **Common operations** 

Common operations are available for both read-only and mutable collections. Common operations fall into these groups: 

- 

## Transformations 

- 

## Filtering 

- `plus` and `minus` operators 

- Grouping 

- 

   - Retrieving collection parts 

- Retrieving single elements 

- 

## Ordering 

- Aggregate operations 

Operations described on these pages return their results without affecting the original collection. For example, a filtering operation produces a new collection that contains all the elements matching the filtering predicate. Results of such operations should be either stored in variables, or used in some other way, for example, passed in other functions. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
    numbers.filter{ it.length >3}// nothing happens with `numbers`, result is lost
println("numbers are still $numbers")
val longerThan3 = numbers.filter{ it.length >3}// result is stored in `longerThan3`
println("numbers longer than 3 chars are $longerThan3")
}
```

For certain collection operations, there is an option to specify the destination object. Destination is a mutable collection to which the function appends its resulting items instead of returning them in a new object. For performing operations with destinations, there are separate functions with the `To` postfix in their names, for example, `filterTo()` instead of `filter()` or `associateTo()` instead of `associate()` . These functions take the destination collection as an additional parameter. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
val filterResults = mutableListOf<String>()//destination object
    numbers.filterTo(filterResults){ it.length >3}
    numbers.filterIndexedTo(filterResults){ index, _ /> index /=0}
println(filterResults)// contains results of both operations
}
```

For convenience, these functions return the destination collection back, so you can create it right in the corresponding argument of the function call: 

```
funmain(){
```

```
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
// filter numbers right into a new hash set,
// thus eliminating duplicates in the result
val result = numbers.mapTo(HashSet()){ it.length }
println("distinct item lengths are $result")
}
```

1117 

Functions with destination are available for filtering, association, grouping, flattening, and other operations. For the complete list of destination operations see the Kotlin collections reference. 

## **Write operations** 

For mutable collections, there are also write operations that change the collection state. Such operations include adding, removing, and updating elements. Write operations are listed in the Write operations and corresponding sections of List-specific operations and Map specific operations. 

For certain operations, there are pairs of functions for performing the same operation: one applies the operation in-place and the other returns the result as a separate collection. For example, `sort()` sorts a mutable collection in-place, so its state changes; `sorted()` creates a new collection that contains the same elements in the sorted order. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three","four")
val sortedNumbers = numbers.sorted()
println(numbers /= sortedNumbers)// false
    numbers.sort()
println(numbers /= sortedNumbers)// true
}
```

## **Aggregate operations** 

Kotlin collections contain functions for commonly used aggregate operations – operations that return a single value based on the collection content. Most of them are well known and work the same way as they do in other languages: 

- `minOrNull()` and `maxOrNull()` return the smallest and the largest element respectively. On empty 

- collections, they return `null` . 

- 

   - `average()` returns the average value of elements in the collection of numbers. 

- 

   - `sum()` returns the sum of elements in the collection of numbers. 

- 

- `count()` returns the number of elements in a collection. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(6,42,10,4)
println("Count: ${numbers.count()}")
println("Max: ${numbers.maxOrNull()}")
println("Min: ${numbers.minOrNull()}")
println("Average: ${numbers.average()}")
println("Sum: ${numbers.sum()}")
}
```

There are also functions for retrieving the smallest and the largest elements by certain selector function or custom `Comparator` : 

- `maxByOrNull()` and `minByOrNull()` take a selector function and return the element for which it returns the 

- largest or the smallest value. 

- `maxWithOrNull()` and `minWithOrNull()` take a `Comparator` object and return the largest or smallest 

- element according to that `Comparator` . 

1118 

- `maxOfOrNull()` and `minOfOrNull()` take a selector function and return the largest or the smallest return 

- value of the selector itself. 

- `maxOfWithOrNull()` and `minOfWithOrNull()` take a `Comparator` object and return the largest or smallest 

- selector return value according to that `Comparator` . 

These functions return `null` on empty collections. There are also alternatives – `maxOf` , `minOf` , `maxOfWith` , and `minOfWith` – which do the same as their counterparts but throw a `NoSuchElementException` on empty collections. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(5,42,10,4)
val min3Remainder = numbers.minByOrNull{ it %3}
println(min3Remainder)
val strings =listOf("one","two","three","four")
val longestString = strings.maxWithOrNull(compareBy { it.length })
println(longestString)
}
```

Besides regular `sum()` , there is an advanced summation function `sumOf()` that takes a selector function and returns the sum of its application to all collection elements. Selector can return different numeric types: `Int` , `Long` , `Double` , `UInt` , and `ULong` (also `BigInteger` and `BigDecimal` on the JVM). 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(5,42,10,4)
println(numbers.sumOf{ it *2})
println(numbers.sumOf{ it.toDouble()/2})
}
```

## **Fold and reduce** 

For more specific cases, there are the functions `reduce()` and `fold()` that apply the provided operation to the collection elements sequentially and return the accumulated result. The operation takes two arguments: the previously accumulated value and the collection element. 

The difference between the two functions is that `fold()` takes an initial value and uses it as the accumulated value on the first step, whereas the first step of `reduce()` uses the first and the second elements as operation arguments on the first step. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(5,2,10,4)
val simpleSum = numbers.reduce{ sum, element /> sum + element }
println(simpleSum)
val sumDoubled = numbers.fold(0){ sum, element /> sum + element *2}
println(sumDoubled)
//incorrect: the first element isn't doubled in the result
//val sumDoubledReduce = numbers.reduce { sum, element /> sum + element * 2 }
//println(sumDoubledReduce)
}
```

The example above shows the difference: `fold()` is used for calculating the sum of doubled elements. If you pass the same function to `reduce()` , it will return another result because it uses the list's first and second elements as arguments on the first step, so the first element won't be doubled. 

1119 

To apply a function to elements in the reverse order, use functions `reduceRight()` and `foldRight()` . They work in a way similar to `fold()` and `reduce()` but start from the last element and then continue to previous. Note that when folding or reducing right, the operation arguments change their order: first goes the element, and then the accumulated value. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(5,2,10,4)
val sumDoubledRight = numbers.foldRight(0){ element, sum /> sum + element *2}
println(sumDoubledRight)
}
```

You can also apply operations that take element indices as parameters. For this purpose, use functions `reduceIndexed()` and `foldIndexed()` passing element index as the first argument of the operation. 

Finally, there are functions that apply such operations to collection elements from right to left - 

`reduceRightIndexed()` and `foldRightIndexed()` . 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(5,2,10,4)
val sumEven = numbers.foldIndexed(0){ idx, sum, element />if(idx %2/=0) sum + element else
sum }
println(sumEven)
```

```
val sumEvenRight = numbers.foldRightIndexed(0){ idx, element, sum />if(idx %2/=0) sum +
element else sum }
println(sumEvenRight)
}
```

All reduce operations throw an exception on empty collections. To receive `null` instead, use their `*OrNull()` counterparts: 

- `reduceOrNull()` 

- 

## `reduceRightOrNull()` 

- 

## `reduceIndexedOrNull()` 

- 

## `reduceRightIndexedOrNull()` 

For cases where you want to save intermediate accumulator values, there are functions `runningFold()` (or its synonym `scan()` ) and `runningReduce()` . 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(0,1,2,3,4,5)
val runningReduceSum = numbers.runningReduce{ sum, item /> sum + item }
val runningFoldSum = numbers.runningFold(10){ sum, item /> sum + item }
val transform ={ index: Int, element: Int />"N = ${index +1}: $element"}
println(runningReduceSum.mapIndexed(transform).joinToString("\n","Sum of first N elements with
runningReduce:\n"))
```

```
println(runningFoldSum.mapIndexed(transform).joinToString("\n","Sum of first N elements with
runningFold:\n"))
}
```

If you need an index in the operation parameter, use `runningFoldIndexed()` or `runningReduceIndexed()` . 

1120 

## **Collection write operations** 

Mutable collections support operations for changing the collection contents, for example, adding or removing elements. On this page, we'll describe write operations available for all implementations of `MutableCollection` . For more specific operations available for `List` and `Map` , see List-specific Operations and Map Specific Operations respectively. 

## **Adding elements** 

To add a single element to a list or a set, use the `add()` function. The specified object is appended to the end of the collection. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf(1,2,3,4)
    numbers.add(5)
println(numbers)
}
```

`addAll()` adds every element of the argument object to a list or a set. The argument can be an `Iterable` , a `Sequence` , or an `Array` . The types of the receiver and the argument may be different, for example, you can add all items from a `Set` to a `List` . 

When called on lists, `addAll()` adds new elements in the same order as they go in the argument. You can also call `addAll()` specifying an element position as the first argument. The first element of the argument collection will be inserted at this position. Other elements of the argument collection will follow it, shifting the receiver elements to the end. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf(1,2,5,6)
    numbers.addAll(arrayOf(7,8))
println(numbers)
    numbers.addAll(2,setOf(3,4))
println(numbers)
}
```

You can also add elements using the in-place version of the `plus` operator - `plusAssign` ( `+=` ) When applied to a mutable collection, `+=` appends the second operand (an element or another collection) to the end of the collection. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two")
    numbers +="three"
println(numbers)
    numbers +=listOf("four","five")
println(numbers)
}
```

## **Removing elements** 

To remove an element from a mutable collection, use the `remove()` function. `remove()` accepts the element value and removes one occurrence of this value. 

1121 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf(1,2,3,4,3)
    numbers.remove(3)// removes the first `3`
println(numbers)
    numbers.remove(5)// removes nothing
println(numbers)
}
```

For removing multiple elements at once, there are the following functions : 

- `removeAll()` removes all elements that are present in the argument collection. Alternatively, you can call it 

- with a predicate as an argument; in this case the function removes all elements for which the predicate yields `true` . 

- `retainAll()` is the opposite of `removeAll()` : it removes all elements except the ones from the argument 

- collection. When used with a predicate, it leaves only elements that match it. 

- 

- `clear()` removes all elements from a list and leaves it empty. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf(1,2,3,4)
println(numbers)
    numbers.retainAll{ it /=3}
println(numbers)
    numbers.clear()
println(numbers)
val numbersSet =mutableSetOf("one","two","three","four")
    numbersSet.removeAll(setOf("one","two"))
println(numbersSet)
}
```

Another way to remove elements from a collection is with the `minusAssign` ( `-=` ) operator – the in-place version of `minus` . The second argument can be a single instance of the element type or another collection. With a single element on the right-hand side, `-=` removes the first occurrence of it. In turn, if it's a collection, all occurrences of its elements are removed. For example, if a list contains duplicate elements, they are removed at once. The second operand can contain elements that are not present in the collection. Such elements don't affect the operation execution. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three","three","four")
    numbers -="three"
println(numbers)
    numbers -=listOf("four","five")
//numbers -= listOf("four")    // does the same as above
println(numbers)
}
```

## **Updating elements** 

Lists and maps also provide operations for updating elements. They are described in List-specific Operations and Map Specific Operations. For sets, updating doesn't make sense since it's actually removing an element and adding another one. 

1122 

## **List-specific operations** 

`List` is the most popular type of built-in collection in Kotlin. Index access to the elements of lists provides a powerful set of operations for lists. 

## **Retrieve elements by index** 

Lists support all common operations for element retrieval: `elementAt()` , `first()` , `last()` , and others listed in Retrieve single elements. What is specific for lists is index access to the elements, so the simplest way to read an element is retrieving it by index. That is done with the `get()` function with the index passed in the argument or the shorthand `[index]` syntax. 

If the list size is less than the specified index, an exception is thrown. There are two other functions that help you avoid such exceptions: 

- `getOrElse()` lets you provide the function for calculating the default value to return if the index isn't present 

- in the collection. 

- `getOrNull()` returns `null` as the default value. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(1,2,3,4)
println(numbers.get(0))
println(numbers[0])
//numbers.get(5)                         // exception!
println(numbers.getOrNull(5))// null
println(numbers.getOrElse(5,{it}))// 5
}
```

## **Retrieve list parts** 

In addition to common operations for Retrieving Collection Parts, lists provide the `subList()` function that returns a view of the specified elements range as a list. Thus, if an element of the original collection changes, it also changes in the previously created sublists and vice versa. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =(0/.13).toList()
println(numbers.subList(3,6))
}
```

## **Find element positions** 

## **Linear search** 

In any lists, you can find the position of an element using the functions `indexOf()` and `lastIndexOf()` . They return the first and the last position of an element equal to the given argument in the list. If there are no such elements, both functions return `-1` . 

1123 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(1,2,3,4,2,5)
println(numbers.indexOf(2))
println(numbers.lastIndexOf(2))
}
```

There is also a pair of functions that take a predicate and search for elements matching it: 

- `indexOfFirst()` returns the index of the first element matching the predicate or `-1` if there are no such 

- elements. 

- `indexOfLast()` returns the index of the last element matching the predicate or `-1` if there are no such 

- elements. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf(1,2,3,4)
println(numbers.indexOfFirst{ it >2})
println(numbers.indexOfLast{ it %2/=1})
}
```

## **Binary search in sorted lists** 

There is one more way to search elements in lists – binary search. It works significantly faster than other built-in search functions but requires the list to besorted in ascending order according to a certain ordering: natural or another one provided in the function parameter. Otherwise, the result is undefined. 

To search an element in a sorted list, call the `binarySearch()` function passing the value as an argument. If such an element exists, the function returns its index; otherwise, it returns `(-insertionPoint - 1)` where 

`insertionPoint` is the index where this element should be inserted so that the list remains sorted. If there is more than one element with the given value, the search can return any of their indices. 

You can also specify an index range to search in: in this case, the function searches only between two provided indices. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three","four")
    numbers.sort()
println(numbers)
println(numbers.binarySearch("two"))// 3
println(numbers.binarySearch("z"))// -5
println(numbers.binarySearch("two",0,2))// -3
}
```

## **Comparator binary search** 

When list elements aren't `Comparable` , you should provide a `Comparator` to use in the binary search. The list must be sorted in ascending order according to this `Comparator` . Let's have a look at an example: 

1124 

```
dataclassProduct(val name: String,val price: Double)
```

```
funmain(){
val productList =listOf(
Product("WebStorm",49.0),
Product("AppCode",99.0),
Product("DotTrace",129.0),
Product("ReSharper",149.0))
```

```
println(productList.binarySearch(Product("AppCode",99.0), compareBy<Product>{ it.price }.thenBy
{ it.name }))
}
```

Here's a list of `Product` instances that aren't `Comparable` and a `Comparator` that defines the order: product `p1` precedes product `p2` if `p1` 's price is less than `p2` 's price. So, having a list sorted ascending according to this order, we use `binarySearch()` to find the index of the specified `Product` . 

Custom comparators are also handy when a list uses an order different from natural one, for example, a caseinsensitive order for `String` elements. 

```
funmain(){
val colors =listOf("Blue","green","ORANGE","Red","yellow")
println(colors.binarySearch("RED", String.CASE_INSENSITIVE_ORDER))// 3
}
```

## **Comparison binary search** 

Binary search with comparison function lets you find elements without providing explicit search values. Instead, it takes a comparison function mapping elements to `Int` values and searches for the element where the function returns zero. The list must be sorted in the ascending order according to the provided function; in other words, the return values of comparison must grow from one list element to the next one. 

```
import kotlin.math.sign
dataclassProduct(val name: String,val price: Double)
funpriceComparison(product: Product, price: Double)=sign(product.price - price).toInt()
funmain(){
val productList =listOf(
Product("WebStorm",49.0),
Product("AppCode",99.0),
Product("DotTrace",129.0),
Product("ReSharper",149.0))
println(productList.binarySearch{priceComparison(it,99.0)})
}
```

Both comparator and comparison binary search can be performed for list ranges as well. 

## **List write operations** 

In addition to the collection modification operations described in Collection write operations, mutable lists support specific write operations. Such operations use the index to access elements to broaden the list modification capabilities. 

1125 

## **Add** 

To add elements to a specific position in a list, use `add()` and `addAll()` providing the position for element insertion as an additional argument. All elements that come after the position shift to the right. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","five","six")
    numbers.add(1,"two")
    numbers.addAll(2,listOf("three","four"))
println(numbers)
}
```

## **Update** 

Lists also offer a function to replace an element at a given position - `set()` and its operator form `[]` . `set()` doesn't change the indexes of other elements. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","five","three")
    numbers[1]="two"
println(numbers)
}
```

`fill()` simply replaces all the collection elements with the specified value. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf(1,2,3,4)
    numbers.fill(3)
println(numbers)
}
```

## **Remove** 

To remove an element at a specific position from a list, use the `removeAt()` function providing the position as an argument. All indices of elements that come after the element being removed will decrease by one. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf(1,2,3,4,3)
    numbers.removeAt(1)
println(numbers)
}
```

## **Sort** 

In Collection Ordering, we describe operations that retrieve collection elements in specific orders. For mutable lists, the standard library offers similar extension functions that perform the same ordering operations in place. When you apply such an operation to a list instance, it changes the order of elements in that exact instance. 

The in-place sorting functions have similar names to the functions that apply to read-only lists, but without the `ed/d` suffix: 

- `sort*` instead of `sorted*` in the names of all sorting functions: `sort()` , `sortDescending()` , `sortBy()` , 

- and so on. 

- 

- `shuffle()` instead of `shuffled()` . 

1126 

## • `reverse()` instead of `reversed()` . 

`asReversed()` called on a mutable list returns another mutable list which is a reversed view of the original list. Changes in that view are reflected in the original list. The following example shows sorting functions for mutable lists: 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three","four")
    numbers.sort()
println("Sort into ascending: $numbers")
    numbers.sortDescending()
println("Sort into descending: $numbers")
    numbers.sortBy{ it.length }
println("Sort into ascending by length: $numbers")
    numbers.sortByDescending{ it.last()}
println("Sort into descending by the last letter: $numbers")
    numbers.sortWith(compareBy<String>{ it.length }.thenBy{ it })
println("Sort by Comparator: $numbers")
    numbers.shuffle()
println("Shuffle: $numbers")
    numbers.reverse()
println("Reverse: $numbers")
}
```

## **Set-specific operations** 

The Kotlin collections package contains extension functions for popular operations on sets: finding intersections, merging, or subtracting collections from each other. 

To merge two collections into one, use the `union()` function. It can be used in the infix form `a union b` . Note that for ordered collections the order of the operands is important. In the resulting collection, the elements of the first operand go before the elements of the second: 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =setOf("one","two","three")
// output according to the order
println(numbers union setOf("four","five"))
// [one, two, three, four, five]
println(setOf("four","five") union numbers)
// [four, five, one, two, three]
}
```

To find an intersection between two collections (elements present in both of them), use the `intersect()` function. To find collection elements not present in another collection, use the `subtract()` function. Both these functions can be called in the infix form as well, for example, `a intersect b` : 

1127 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =setOf("one","two","three")
// same output
println(numbers intersect setOf("two","one"))
// [one, two]
println(numbers subtract setOf("three","four"))
// [one, two]
println(numbers subtract setOf("four","three"))
// [one, two]
}
```

To find the elements present in either one of the two collections but not in their intersection, you can also use the `union()` function. For this operation (known as symmetric difference), calculate the differences between the two collections and merge the results: 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =setOf("one","two","three")
val numbers2 =setOf("three","four")
// merge differences
println((numbers - numbers2)union(numbers2 - numbers))
// [one, two, four]
}
```

You can also apply `union()` , `intersect()` , and `subtract()` functions to lists. However, their result is always a `Set` . In this result, all the duplicate elements are merged into one and the index access is not available: 

```
funmain(){
val list1 =listOf(1,1,2,3,5,8,-1)
val list2 =listOf(1,1,2,2,3,5)
// result of intersecting two lists is a Set
println(list1 intersect list2)
// [1, 2, 3, 5]
// equal elements are merged into one
println(list1 union list2)
// [1, 2, 3, 5, 8, -1]
}
```

## **Map-specific operations** 

In maps, types of both keys and values are user-defined. Key-based access to map entries enables various mapspecific processing capabilities from getting a value by key to separate filtering of keys and values. On this page, we provide descriptions of the map processing functions from the standard library. 

## **Retrieve keys and values** 

For retrieving a value from a map, you must provide its key as an argument of the `get()` function. The shorthand `[key]` syntax is also supported. If the given key is not found, it returns `null` . There is also the function `getValue()` which has slightly different behavior: it throws an exception if the key is not found in the map. Additionally, you have more options to handle the key absence: 

- `getOrElse()` works the same way as for lists: the values for non-existent keys are returned from the given 

- lambda function. 

1128 

- `getOrDefault()` returns the specified default value if the key is not found. 

For maps with nullable values, use the following functions instead, which handle missing keys and `null` values explicitly: 

- 

   - `getOrElseIfNull()` returns the result of the specified default value if the key is missing or has a `null` value. 

- 

- `getOrElseIfMissing()` returns the result of the specified default value if the key is missing. 

Here's an example that shows the difference between these functions: 

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi/:class)
funmain(){
val numbersMap =mapOf("one"to1,"two"to2,"three"to3)
println(numbersMap.get("one"))
// 1
println(numbersMap["one"])
// 1
println(numbersMap.getOrDefault("four",10))
// 10
println(numbersMap["five"])
// null
val nullableMap =mapOf("one"to1,"two"tonull)
println(nullableMap.getOrElseIfNull("two"){0})
// 0
println(nullableMap.getOrElseIfMissing("two"){0})
// null
// Throws an exception because "six" is missing from the map
// numbersMap.getValue("six")
}
```

To perform operations on all keys or all values of a map, you can retrieve them from the properties `keys` and `values` accordingly. `keys` is a set of all map keys and `values` is a collection of all map values. 

```
funmain(){
val numbersMap =mapOf("one"to1,"two"to2,"three"to3)
println(numbersMap.keys)
println(numbersMap.values)
}
```

## **Filter** 

You can filter maps with the `filter()` function as well as other collections. When calling `filter()` on a map, pass to it a predicate with a `Pair` as an argument. This enables you to use both the key and the value in the filtering predicate. 

```
funmain(){
val numbersMap =mapOf("key1"to1,"key2"to2,"key3"to3,"key11"to11)
val filteredMap = numbersMap.filter{(key, value)/> key.endsWith("1")/& value >10}
println(filteredMap)
```

```
}
```

1129 

There are also two specific ways for filtering maps: by keys and by values. For each way, there is a function: `filterKeys()` and `filterValues()` . Both return a new map of entries which match the given predicate. The predicate for `filterKeys()` checks only the element keys, the one for `filterValues()` checks only values. 

```
funmain(){
val numbersMap =mapOf("key1"to1,"key2"to2,"key3"to3,"key11"to11)
val filteredKeysMap = numbersMap.filterKeys{ it.endsWith("1")}
val filteredValuesMap = numbersMap.filterValues{ it <10}
```

```
println(filteredKeysMap)
println(filteredValuesMap)
}
```

## **Plus and minus operators** 

Due to the key access to elements, `plus` ( `+` ) and `minus` ( `-` ) operators work for maps differently than for other collections. `plus` returns a `Map` that contains elements of its both operands: a `Map` on the left and a `Pair` or another `Map` on the right. When the right-hand side operand contains entries with keys present in the left-hand side `Map` , the result map contains the entries from the right side. 

```
funmain(){
val numbersMap =mapOf("one"to1,"two"to2,"three"to3)
println(numbersMap +Pair("four",4))
println(numbersMap +Pair("one",10))
println(numbersMap +mapOf("five"to5,"one"to11))
}
```

`minus` creates a `Map` from entries of a `Map` on the left except those with keys from the right-hand side operand. So, the right-hand side operand can be either a single key or a collection of keys: list, set, and so on. 

```
funmain(){
val numbersMap =mapOf("one"to1,"two"to2,"three"to3)
println(numbersMap -"one")
println(numbersMap -listOf("two","four"))
}
```

For details on using `plusAssign` ( `+=` ) and `minusAssign` ( `-=` ) operators on mutable maps, see Map write operations below. 

## **Map write operations** 

Mutable maps offer map-specific write operations. These operations let you change the map content using the key-based access to the values. 

There are certain rules that define write operations on maps: 

- Values can be updated. In turn, keys never change: once you add an entry, its key is constant. 

- For each key, there is always a single value associated with it. You can add and remove whole entries. 

Below are descriptions of the standard library functions for write operations available on mutable maps. 

1130 

## **Add and update entries** 

To add a new key-value pair to a mutable map, use `put()` . When a new entry is put into a `LinkedHashMap` (the default map implementation), it is added so that it comes last when iterating the map. In sorted maps, the positions of new elements are defined by the order of their keys. 

```
funmain(){
val numbersMap =mutableMapOf("one"to1,"two"to2)
    numbersMap.put("three",3)
println(numbersMap)
}
```

To add multiple entries at a time, use `putAll()` . Its argument can be a `Map` or a group of `Pair` s: `Iterable` , `Sequence` , or `Array` . 

```
funmain(){
val numbersMap =mutableMapOf("one"to1,"two"to2,"three"to3)
    numbersMap.putAll(setOf("four"to4,"five"to5))
println(numbersMap)
}
```

Both `put()` and `putAll()` overwrite the values if the given keys already exist in the map. Thus, you can use them to update values of map entries. 

```
funmain(){
val numbersMap =mutableMapOf("one"to1,"two"to2)
val previousValue = numbersMap.put("one",11)
println("value associated with 'one', before: $previousValue, after: ${numbersMap["one"]}")
println(numbersMap)
}
```

You can also add new entries to maps using the shorthand operator form. There are two ways: 

- `plusAssign` ( `+=` ) operator. 

- 

- the `[]` operator alias for `set()` . 

```
funmain(){
val numbersMap =mutableMapOf("one"to1,"two"to2)
    numbersMap["three"]=3// calls numbersMap.put("three", 3)
    numbersMap +=mapOf("four"to4,"five"to5)
println(numbersMap)
}
```

When called with the key present in the map, operators overwrite the values of the corresponding entries. 

## **Add default values for missing entries** 

To return an existing value or add a default value when no value is available, use the `.getOrPut()` extension function. If the key is missing or has a `null` value, `.getOrPut()` stores the default value and returns it. 

For maps with nullable values, you can use the `.getOrPutIfNull()` and `.getOrPutIfMissing()` functions to control how `null` values are treated: 

- `getOrPutIfNull()` behaves like `getOrPut()` and uses the default value if the key is missing or has a `null` 

- value. 

- 

- `getOrPutIfMissing()` uses the default value only if the key is missing. 

1131 

## The `getOrPutIfNull()` and `getOrPutIfMissing()` functions are Experimental. To opt in, use the `@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi::class)` annotation. 

Here's an example: 

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi/:class)
funmain(){
val mapForNull = mutableMapOf<String, Int?>("one"tonull)
val mapForMissing = mutableMapOf<String, Int?>("one"tonull)
```

```
// Replaces the value if "one" has a null value
    mapForNull.getOrPutIfNull("one"){1}
```

```
println(mapForNull)
// {one=1}
// Keeps the null value because "one" exists in the map
    mapForMissing.getOrPutIfMissing("one"){1}
```

```
println(mapForMissing)
// {one=null}
}
```

## **Remove entries** 

To remove an entry from a mutable map, use the `remove()` function. When calling `remove()` , you can pass either a key or a whole key-value-pair. If you specify both the key and value, the element with this key will be removed only if its value matches the second argument. 

```
funmain(){
val numbersMap =mutableMapOf("one"to1,"two"to2,"three"to3)
    numbersMap.remove("one")
println(numbersMap)
    numbersMap.remove("three",4)//doesn't remove anything
println(numbersMap)
}
```

You can also remove entries from a mutable map by their keys or values. To do this, call `remove()` on the map's keys or values providing the key or the value of an entry. When called on values, `remove()` removes only the first entry with the given value. 

```
funmain(){
```

```
val numbersMap =mutableMapOf("one"to1,"two"to2,"three"to3,"threeAgain"to3)
    numbersMap.keys.remove("one")
println(numbersMap)
    numbersMap.values.remove(3)
println(numbersMap)
}
```

The `minusAssign` ( `-=` ) operator is also available for mutable maps. 

## **`fun`** `main() {` 

```
val numbersMap =mutableMapOf("one"to1,"two"to2,"three"to3)
    numbersMap -="two"
println(numbersMap)
    numbersMap -="five"//doesn't remove anything
println(numbersMap)
}
```

1132 

## **Plus and minus operators** 

In Kotlin, `plus` ( `+` ) and `minus` ( `-` ) operators are defined for collections. They take a collection as the first operand; the second operand can be either an element or another collection. The return value is a new read-only collection: 

- 

   - The result of `plus` contains the elements from the original collection and from the second operand. 

- The result of `minus` contains the elements of the original collection except the elements from the second operand. If it's an element, `minus` removes its first occurrence; if it's a collection, all occurrences of its elements are removed. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
val plusList = numbers +"five"
val minusList = numbers -listOf("three","four")
println(plusList)
println(minusList)
}
```

For the details on `plus` and `minus` operators for maps, see Map specific operations. The augmented assignment operators `plusAssign` ( `+=` ) and `minusAssign` ( `-=` ) are also defined for collections. However, for read-only collections, they actually use the `plus` or `minus` operators and try to assign the result to the same variable. Thus, they are available only on `var` read-only collections. For mutable collections, they modify the collection if it's a `val` . For more details see Collection write operations. 

## **Sequences** 

Along with collections, the Kotlin standard library contains another type – sequences ( `Sequence<T>` ). Unlike collections, sequences don't contain elements, they produce them while iterating. Sequences offer the same functions as `Iterable` but implement another approach to multi-step collection processing. 

When the processing of an `Iterable` includes multiple steps, they are executed eagerly: each processing step completes and returns its result – an intermediate collection. The following step executes on this collection. In turn, multi-step processing of sequences is executed lazily when possible: actual computing happens only when the result of the whole processing chain is requested. 

The order of operations execution is different as well: `Sequence` performs all the processing steps one-by-one for every single element. In turn, `Iterable` completes each step for the whole collection and then proceeds to the next step. 

So, the sequences let you avoid building results of intermediate steps, therefore improving the performance of the whole collection processing chain. However, the lazy nature of sequences adds some overhead which may be significant when processing smaller collections or doing simpler computations. Hence, you should consider both `Sequence` and `Iterable` and decide which one is better for your case. 

## **Construct** 

## **From elements** 

To create a sequence, call the `sequenceOf()` function listing the elements as its arguments. 

1133 

```
val numbersSequence =sequenceOf("four","three","two","one")
```

## **From an Iterable** 

If you already have an `Iterable` object (such as a `List` or a `Set` ), you can create a sequence from it by calling `asSequence()` . 

```
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
val numbersSequence = numbers.asSequence()
```

## **From a function** 

One more way to create a sequence is by building it with a function that calculates its elements. To build a sequence based on a function, call `generateSequence()` with this function as an argument. Optionally, you can specify the first element as an explicit value or a result of a function call. The sequence generation stops when the provided function returns `null` . So, the sequence in the example below is infinite. 

```
funmain(){
```

```
val oddNumbers =generateSequence(1){ it +2}// `it` is the previous element
println(oddNumbers.take(5).toList())
//println(oddNumbers.count())     // error: the sequence is infinite
}
```

To create a finite sequence with `generateSequence()` , provide a function that returns `null` after the last element you need. 

```
funmain(){
```

```
val oddNumbersLessThan10 =generateSequence(1){if(it <8) it +2elsenull}
println(oddNumbersLessThan10.count())
}
```

## **From chunks** 

Finally, there is a function that lets you produce sequence elements one by one or by chunks of arbitrary sizes – the `sequence()` function. This function takes a lambda expression containing calls of `yield()` and `yieldAll()` functions. They return an element to the sequence consumer and suspend the execution of `sequence()` until the next element is requested by the consumer. `yield()` takes a single element as an argument; `yieldAll()` can take an `Iterable` object, an `Iterator` , or another `Sequence` . A `Sequence` argument of `yieldAll()` can be infinite. However, such a call must be the last: all subsequent calls will never be executed. 

```
funmain(){
val oddNumbers = sequence {
yield(1)
yieldAll(listOf(3,5))
yieldAll(generateSequence(7){ it +2})
}
println(oddNumbers.take(5).toList())
}
```

1134 

## **Sequence operations** 

The sequence operations can be classified into the following groups regarding their state requirements: 

- Stateless operations require no state and process each element independently, for example, `map()` or `filter()` . Stateless operations can also require a small constant amount of state to process an element, for 

- example, `take()` or `drop()` . 

- Stateful operations require a significant amount of state, usually proportional to the number of elements in a sequence. 

If a sequence operation returns another sequence, which is produced lazily, it's called intermediate. Otherwise, the operation is terminal. Examples of terminal operations are `toList()` or `sum()` . Sequence elements can be retrieved only with terminal operations. 

Sequences can be iterated multiple times; however some sequence implementations might constrain themselves to be iterated only once. That is mentioned specifically in their documentation. 

## **Sequence processing example** 

Let's take a look at the difference between `Iterable` and `Sequence` with an example. 

## **Iterable** 

Assume that you have a list of words. The code below filters the words longer than three characters and prints the lengths of first four such words. 

```
funmain(){
val words ="The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog".split(" ")
val lengthsList = words.filter{println("filter: $it"); it.length >3}
.map{println("length: ${it.length}"); it.length }
.take(4)
println("Lengths of first 4 words longer than 3 chars:")
println(lengthsList)
}
```

When you run this code, you'll see that the `filter()` and `map()` functions are executed in the same order as they appear in the code. First, you see `filter:` for all elements, then `length:` for the elements left after filtering, and then the output of the two last lines. 

This is how the list processing goes: 

1135 

**==> picture [524 x 330] intentionally omitted <==**

List processing 

## **Sequence** 

Now let's write the same with sequences: 

## **`fun`** `main() {` 

```
val words ="The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog".split(" ")
//convert the List to a Sequence
val wordsSequence = words.asSequence()
```

```
val lengthsSequence = wordsSequence.filter{println("filter: $it"); it.length >3}
.map{println("length: ${it.length}"); it.length }
.take(4)
```

```
println("Lengths of first 4 words longer than 3 chars")
// terminal operation: obtaining the result as a List
println(lengthsSequence.toList())
}
```

The output of this code shows that the `filter()` and `map()` functions are called only when building the result list. So, you first see the line of text `"Lengths of.."` and then the sequence processing starts. Note that for elements left after filtering, the map executes before filtering the next element. When the result size reaches 4, the processing stops because it's the largest possible size that `take(4)` can return. 

The sequence processing goes like this: 

1136 

**==> picture [524 x 329] intentionally omitted <==**

Sequences processing 

In this example, the lazy processing of elements and stopping after finding four items reduces the number of operations compared to using a list approach. 

## **Ranges and progressions** 

Ranges and progressions define sequences of values in Kotlin, supporting range operators, iteration, custom step values, and arithmetic progressions. 

## **Ranges** 

Kotlin lets you easily create ranges of values using the `.rangeTo()` and `.rangeUntil()` functions from the `kotlin.ranges` package. 

A range represents an ordered set of values with a defined start and end. By default, it increments by 1 at each step. For example, `1..4` represents the numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4. 

To create: 

- a closed-ended range, call the `.rangeTo()` function with the `..` operator. This includes both the start and end values. 

- an open-ended range, call the `.rangeUntil()` function with the `..<` operator. This includes the start value but excludes the end value. 

For example: 

1137 

```
funmain(){
// Closed-ended range: includes both 1 and 4
println(4in1/.4)
// true
// Open-ended range: includes 1, excludes 4
println(4in1<4)
// false
}
```

Ranges are particularly useful for iterating over `for` loops: 

```
funmain(){
for(i in1/.4)print(i)
// 1234
}
```

To iterate numbers in reverse order, use the `downTo` function instead of `..` . 

```
funmain(){
for(i in4 downTo 1)print(i)
// 4321
}
```

You can also iterate over numbers with a custom step using the `step()` function, instead of the default increment of 1: 

```
funmain(){
for(i in0/.8 step 2)print(i)
println()
// 02468
for(i in0<8 step 2)print(i)
println()
// 0246
for(i in8 downTo 0 step 2)print(i)
// 86420
}
```

## **Progressions** 

The ranges of integral types, such as `Int` , `Long` , and `Char` , can be treated as arithmetic progressions. In Kotlin, these progressions are defined by special types: `IntProgression` , `LongProgression` , and `CharProgression` . 

Progressions have three essential properties: the `first` element, the `last` element, and a non-zero `step` . The first element is `first` , subsequent elements are the previous element plus a `step` . Iteration over a progression with a positive step is equivalent to an indexed `for` loop in Java/JavaScript. 

```
for(int i = first; i /= last; i += step){
// //.
}
```

When you create a progression implicitly by iterating a range, this progression's `first` and `last` elements are the range's endpoints, and the `step` is 1. 

1138 

```
funmain(){
for(i in1/.10)print(i)
// 12345678910
}
```

To define a custom progression step, use the `step` function on a range. 

```
funmain(){
for(i in1/.8 step 2)print(i)
// 1357
}
```

The `last` element of the progression is calculated this way: 

- For a positive step: the maximum value not greater than the end value such that `(last - first) % step == 0` . 

- For a negative step: the minimum value not less than the end value such that `(last - first) % step == 0` . 

Thus, the `last` element is not always the same as the specified end value. 

```
funmain(){
for(i in1/.9 step 3)print(i)// the last element is 7
// 147
}
```

Progressions implement `Iterable<N>` , where `N` is `Int` , `Long` , or `Char` respectively, so you can use them in various collection functions like `map` , `filter` , and other. 

```
funmain(){
println((1/.10).filter{ it %2/=0})
// [2, 4, 6, 8, 10]
}
```

## **Read standard input** 

Use the `readln()` function to read data from the standard input. It reads the whole line as a string: 

```
// Reads and stores the user input in a variable. For example: Hi there!
val myInput =readln()
```

```
println(myInput)
// Hi there!
```

```
// Reads and prints the user input without storing it in a variable. For example: Hi, Kotlin!
println(readln())
// Hi, Kotlin!
```

To work with data types other than strings, you can convert the input using conversion functions like `.toInt()` , `.toLong()` , `.toDouble()` , `.toFloat()` , or `.toBoolean()` . It is possible to read multiple inputs of different data types and store each input in a variable: 

1139 

```
// Converts the input from a string to an integer value. For example: 12
val myNumber =readln().toInt()
println(myNumber)
// 12
// Converts the input from a string to a double value. For example: 345
val myDouble =readln().toDouble()
println(myDouble)
// 345.0
// Converts the input from a string to a boolean value. For example: true
val myBoolean =readln().toBoolean()
println(myBoolean)
// true
```

These conversion functions assume the user enters a valid representation of the target data type. For example, converting "hello" to an integer using `.toInt()` would result in an exception as the function expects a number in the string input. 

To read several input elements separated by a delimiter, use the `.split()` function specifying the delimiter. The following code sample reads from the standard input, splits the input into a list of elements based on the delimiter, and converts each element of the list into a specific type: 

```
// Reads the input, assuming the elements are separated by spaces, and converts them into integers.
For example: 1 2 3
val numbers =readln().split(' ').map{ it.toInt()}
println(numbers)
//[1, 2, 3]
// Reads the input, assuming the elements are separated by commas, and converts them into doubles. For
example: 4,5,6
val doubles =readln().split(',').map{ it.toDouble()}
println(doubles)
//[4.0, 5.0, 6.0]
```

For an alternative way to read user input in Kotlin/JVM, see Standard input with Java Scanner. 

## **Handle standard input safely** 

You can use the `.toIntOrNull()` function to safely convert user input from a string to an integer. This function returns an integer if the conversion is successful. However, if the input is not a valid representation of an integer, it returns `null` : 

```
// Returns null if the input is invalid. For example: Hello!
val wrongInt =readln().toIntOrNull()
println(wrongInt)
// null
// Converts a valid input from a string to an integer. For example: 13
val correctInt =readln().toIntOrNull()
println(correctInt)
// 13
```

The `readlnOrNull()` function is also helpful in safely handling the user input. The `readlnOrNull()` function reads from the standard input and returns null if the end of the input is reached, whereas `readln()` throws an exception in such a case. 

1140 

## **Opt-in requirements** 

The Kotlin standard library provides a mechanism for requiring and giving explicit consent to use certain API elements. This mechanism allows library authors to inform users about specific conditions that require opt-in, such as when an API is in an experimental state and is likely to change in the future. 

To protect users, the compiler warns about these conditions and requires them to opt in before the API can be used. 

## **Opt in to API** 

- If a library author marks a declaration from their library's API as requiring opt in, you must give explicit consent before you can use it in your code. There are several ways to opt in. We recommend choosing the approach that best suits your situation. 

## **Opt in locally** 

To opt in to a specific API element when you use it in your code, use the `@OptIn` annotation with a reference to the experimental API marker. For example, suppose you want to use the `DateProvider` class, which requires an opt-in: 

```
// Library code
@RequiresOptIn(message ="This API is experimental. It could change in the future without notice.")
@Retention(AnnotationRetention.BINARY)
@Target(AnnotationTarget.CLASS, AnnotationTarget.FUNCTION)
annotationclass MyDateTime
```

```
@MyDateTime
// A class requiring opt-in
class DateProvider
```

In your code, before declaring a function that uses the `DateProvider` class, add the `@OptIn` annotation with a reference to the `MyDateTime` annotation class: 

```
// Client code
@OptIn(MyDateTime/:class)
```

```
// Uses DateProvider
fungetDate(): Date {
val dateProvider: DateProvider
// //.
}
```

It's important to note that with this approach, if the `getDate()` function is called elsewhere in your code or used by another developer, no opt-in is required: 

1141 

```
// Client code
@OptIn(MyDateTime/:class)
// Uses DateProvider
fungetDate(): Date {
val dateProvider: DateProvider
// //.
}
fundisplayDate(){
// OK: No opt-in is required
println(getDate())
}
```

The opt-in requirement is not propagated, which means others might unknowingly use experimental APIs. To avoid this, it is safer to propagate the opt-in requirements. 

## **Propagate opt-in requirements** 

When you use API in your code that's intended for third-party use, such as in a library, you can propagate its opt-in - requirement to your API as well. To do this, mark your declaration with the same opt in requirement annotation used by the library. 

For example, before declaring a function that uses the `DateProvider` class, add the `@MyDateTime` annotation: 

```
// Client code
@MyDateTime
fungetDate(): Date {
// OK: the function requires opt-in as well
val dateProvider: DateProvider
// //.
}
fundisplayDate(){
println(getDate())
// Error: getDate() requires opt-in
}
```

As you can see in this example, the annotated function appears to be a part of the `@MyDateTime` API. The opt-in propagates the opt-in requirement to users of the `getDate()` function. 

If the signature of an API element includes a type that requires opt-in, the signature itself must also require opt-in. Otherwise, if an API element doesn't require opt-in, but its signature includes a type that does, using it triggers an error. 

```
// Client code
@MyDateTime
fungetDate(dateProvider: DateProvider =DateProvider()): Date
@MyDateTime
fundisplayDate(){
// OK: the function requires opt-in as well
println(getDate())
}
```

Similarly, if you apply `@OptIn` to a declaration whose signature includes a type that requires opt-in, the opt-in requirement still propagates: 

1142 

```
// Client code
@OptIn(MyDateTime/:class)
// Propagates opt-in due to DateProvider in the signature
fungetDate(dateProvider: DateProvider =DateProvider()): Date
```

```
fundisplayDate(){
println(getDate())
// Error: getDate() requires opt-in
}
```

When propagating opt-in requirements, it's important to understand that if an API element becomes stable and no longer has an opt-in requirement, any other API elements that still have the opt-in requirement remain experimental. For example, suppose a library author removes the opt-in requirement for the `getDate()` function because it's now stable: 

```
// Library code
// No opt-in requirement
fungetDate(): Date {
val dateProvider: DateProvider
// //.
}
```

If you use the `displayDate()` function without removing the opt-in annotation, it remains experimental even though the opt-in is no longer needed: 

```
// Client code
// Still experimental!
@MyDateTime
fundisplayDate(){
// Uses a stable library function
println(getDate())
}
```

## **Opt in to multiple APIs** 

To opt in to multiple APIs, mark the declaration with all their opt-in requirement annotations. For example: 

```
@ExperimentalCoroutinesApi
@FlowPreview
```

Or alternatively with `@OptIn` : 

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalCoroutinesApi/:class, FlowPreview/:class)
```

## **Opt in a file** 

To use an API that requires opt-in for all functions and classes in a file, add the file-level annotation `@file:OptIn` to the top of the file before the package specification and imports. 

```
// Client code
@file:OptIn(MyDateTime/:class)
```

1143 

**Opt in a module** 

The `-opt-in` compiler option is available since Kotlin 1.6.0. For earlier Kotlin versions, use `-Xopt-in` . 

If you don't want to annotate every usage of APIs that require opt-in, you can opt in to them for your whole module. To opt in to using an API in a module, compile it with the argument `-opt-in` , specifying the fully qualified name of the opt-in requirement annotation of the API you use: `-opt-` 

`in=org.mylibrary.OptInAnnotation` . Compiling with this argument has the same effect as if every declaration in the module has the annotation `@OptIn(OptInAnnotation::class)` . 

If you build your module with Gradle, you can add arguments like this: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// //.
```

```
tasks.named<KotlinCompilationTask*>("compileKotlin").configure{
    compilerOptions.optIn.add("org.mylibrary.OptInAnnotation")
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// //.
```

```
tasks.named('compileKotlin', KotlinCompilationTask){
    compilerOptions {
        optIn.add('org.mylibrary.OptInAnnotation')
}
}
```

If your Gradle module is a multiplatform module, use the `optIn` method: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        optIn.add("org.mylibrary.OptInAnnotation")
}
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        optIn.add('org.mylibrary.OptInAnnotation')
}
}
```

1144 

For Maven, use the following: 

```
<build>
<plugins>
<plugin>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin//groupId>
<artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin//artifactId>
<version>${kotlin.version}//version>
<executions>//.//executions>
<configuration>
<args>
<arg-opt-in=org.mylibrary.OptInAnnotation//arg>
//args>
//configuration>
//plugin>
//plugins>
//build>
```

To opt in to multiple APIs on the module level, add one of the described arguments for each opt-in requirement marker used in your module. 

## **Opt in to inherit from a class or interface** 

Sometimes, a library author provides an API but wants to require users to explicitly opt in before they can extend it. For example, the library API may be stable for use but not for inheritance, as it might be extended in the future with new abstract functions. Library authors can enforce this by marking open or abstract classes and nonfunctional interfaces with the `@SubclassOptInRequired` annotation. 

To opt in to use such an API element and extend it in your code, use the `@SubclassOptInRequired` annotation with a reference to the annotation class. For example, suppose you want to use the `CoreLibraryApi` interface, which requires an opt-in: 

```
// Library code
@RequiresOptIn(
 level = RequiresOptIn.Level.WARNING,
 message ="Interfaces in this library are experimental"
)
annotationclassUnstableApi()
@SubclassOptInRequired(UnstableApi/:class)
// An interface requiring opt-in to extend
interface CoreLibraryApi
```

In your code, before creating a new interface that inherits from the `CoreLibraryApi` interface, add the `@SubclassOptInRequired` annotation with a reference to the `UnstableApi` annotation class: 

```
// Client code
@SubclassOptInRequired(UnstableApi/:class)
interface SomeImplementation : CoreLibraryApi
```

Note that when you use the `@SubclassOptInRequired` annotation on a class, the opt-in requirement is not propagated to any inner or nested classes: 

1145 

```
// Library code
@RequiresOptIn
annotationclass ExperimentalFeature
@SubclassOptInRequired(ExperimentalFeature/:class)
openclass FileSystem {
openclass File
}
// Client code
// Opt-in is required
class NetworkFileSystem :FileSystem()
// Nested class
// No opt-in required
class TextFile : FileSystem.File()
```

Alternatively, you can opt in by using the `@OptIn` annotation. You can also use an experimental marker annotation to propagate the requirement further to any uses of the class in your code: 

```
// Client code
// With @OptIn annotation
@OptInRequired(UnstableApi/:class)
interface SomeImplementation : CoreLibraryApi
// With annotation referencing annotation class
// Propagates the opt-in requirement further
@UnstableApi
interface SomeImplementation : CoreLibraryApi
```

## **Require opt-in to use API** 

You can require users of your library to opt in before they are able to use your API. Additionally, you can inform users about any special conditions for using your API until you decide to remove the opt-in requirement. 

## **Create opt-in requirement annotations** 

To require opt-in to use your module's API, create an annotation class to use as an **opt-in requirement annotation** . This class must be annotated with `@RequiresOptIn` : 

```
@RequiresOptIn
@Retention(AnnotationRetention.BINARY)
@Target(AnnotationTarget.CLASS, AnnotationTarget.FUNCTION)
annotationclass MyDateTime
```

Opt-in requirement annotations must meet several requirements. They must have: 

- `BINARY` or `RUNTIME` retention. 

- 

   - No `EXPRESSION` , `FILE` , `TYPE` , or `TYPE_PARAMETER` as a target. 

- 

- No parameters. 

An opt-in requirement can have one of two severity levels: 

- `RequiresOptIn.Level.ERROR` . Opt-in is mandatory. Otherwise, the code that uses marked API won't compile. 

- This is the default level. 

1146 

- `RequiresOptIn.Level.WARNING` . Opt-in is not mandatory, but advisable. Without it, the compiler raises a 

- warning. 

To set the desired level, specify the `level` parameter of the `@RequiresOptIn` annotation. 

Additionally, you can provide a `message` to API users. The compiler shows this message to users that try to use the API without opt-in: 

```
@RequiresOptIn(level = RequiresOptIn.Level.WARNING, message ="This API is experimental. It can be
incompatibly changed in the future.")
@Retention(AnnotationRetention.BINARY)
@Target(AnnotationTarget.CLASS, AnnotationTarget.FUNCTION)
annotationclass ExperimentalDateTime
```

If you publish multiple independent features that require opt-in, declare an annotation for each. This makes using your API safer for your clients because they can use only the features that they explicitly accept. This also means that you can remove the opt-in requirements from features independently, which makes your API easier to maintain. 

## **Mark API elements** 

To require an opt-in to use an API element, annotate its declaration with an opt-in requirement annotation: 

```
@MyDateTime
class DateProvider
@MyDateTime
fungetTime(): Time {}
```

Note that for some language elements, an opt-in requirement annotation is not applicable: 

- You can't annotate a backing field or a getter of a property, just the property itself. 

- You can't annotate a local variable or a value parameter. 

## **Require opt-in to extend API** 

There may be times when you want more granular control over which specific parts of your API can be used and extended. For example, when you have some API that is stable to use but: 

- **Unstable to implement** due to ongoing evolution, such as when you have a family of interfaces where you expect to add new abstract functions without default implementations. 

- 

   - **Delicate or fragile to implement** , such as individual functions that need to behave in a coordinated manner. 

- **Has a contract that may be weakened in the future** in a backward-incompatible way for external implementations, such as changing an input parameter `T` to a nullable version `T?` where the code didn't previously consider `null` values. 

In such cases, you can require users to opt in to your API before they can extend it further. Users can extend your API by inheriting from the API or implementing abstract functions. By using the `@SubclassOptInRequired` annotation, you can enforce this requirement to opt-in for open or abstract classes and non-functional interfaces. 

To add the opt-in requirement to an API element, use the `@SubclassOptInRequired` annotation with a reference to the annotation class: 

1147 

```
@RequiresOptIn(
```

```
 level = RequiresOptIn.Level.WARNING,
 message ="Interfaces in this library are experimental"
)
annotationclassUnstableApi()
```

```
@SubclassOptInRequired(UnstableApi/:class)
// An interface requiring opt-in to extend
interface CoreLibraryApi
```

Note that when you use the `@SubclassOptInRequired` annotation to require opt-in, the requirement is not propagated to any inner or nested classes. 

For a real-world example of how to use the `@SubclassOptInRequired` annotation in your API, check out the `SharedFlow` interface in the `kotlinx.coroutines` library. 

## **Opt-in requirements for pre-stable APIs** 

If you use opt-in requirements for features that are not stable yet, carefully handle the API graduation to avoid breaking client code. 

Once your pre-stable API graduates and is released in a stable state, remove opt-in requirement annotations from your declarations. The clients can then use them without restriction. However, you should leave the annotation classes in modules so that the existing client code remains compatible. 

To encourage API users to update their modules by removing any annotations from their code and recompiling, mark the annotations as `@Deprecated` and provide an explanation in the deprecation message. 

```
@Deprecated("This opt-in requirement is not used anymore. Remove its usages from your code.")
@RequiresOptIn
annotationclass ExperimentalDateTime
```

## **Scope functions** 

The Kotlin standard library contains several functions whose sole purpose is to execute a block of code within the context of an object. When you call such a function on an object with a lambda expression provided, it forms a temporary scope. In this scope, you can access the object without its name. Such functions are called scope functions. There are five of them: `let` , `run` , `with` , `apply` , and `also` . 

Basically, these functions all perform the same action: execute a block of code on an object. What's different is how this object becomes available inside the block and what the result of the whole expression is. 

Here's a typical example of how to use a scope function: 

1148 

```
dataclassPerson(var name: String,var age: Int,var city: String){
funmoveTo(newCity: String){ city = newCity }
funincrementAge(){ age/+}
}
funmain(){
Person("Alice",20,"Amsterdam").let{
println(it)
        it.moveTo("London")
        it.incrementAge()
println(it)
}
}
```

If you write the same without `let` , you'll have to introduce a new variable and repeat its name whenever you use it. 

```
dataclassPerson(var name: String,var age: Int,var city: String){
funmoveTo(newCity: String){ city = newCity }
funincrementAge(){ age/+}
}
funmain(){
val alice =Person("Alice",20,"Amsterdam")
println(alice)
    alice.moveTo("London")
    alice.incrementAge()
println(alice)
}
```

Scope functions don't introduce any new technical capabilities, but they can make your code more concise and readable. 

Due to the many similarities between scope functions, choosing the right one for your use case can be tricky. The choice mainly depends on your intent and the consistency of use in your project. Below, we provide detailed descriptions of the differences between scope functions and their conventions. 

## **Function selection** 

To help you choose the right scope function for your purpose, we provide this table that summarizes the key differences between them. 

|Function|Object reference|Return value|Is extension function|
|---|---|---|---|
|`let`|`it`|Lambda result|Yes|
|`run`|`this`|Lambda result|Yes|
|`run`|-|Lambda result|No: called without the context object|
|`with`|`this`|Lambda result|No: takes the context object as an argument.|
|`apply`|`this`|Context object|Yes|



1149 

Function Object reference Return value 

Is extension function 

```
also
```

```
it
```

Context object Yes 

Detailed information about these functions is provided in the dedicated sections below. 

Here is a short guide for choosing scope functions depending on the intended purpose: 

- Executing a lambda on non-nullable objects: `let` 

- Introducing an expression as a variable in local scope: `let` 

- Object configuration: `apply` 

- Object configuration and computing the result: `run` 

- Running statements where an expression is required: non-extension `run` 

- Additional effects: `also` 

- Grouping function calls on an object: `with` 

The use cases of different scope functions overlap, so you can choose which functions to use based on the specific conventions used in your project or team. 

Although scope functions can make your code more concise, avoid overusing them: it can make your code hard to read and lead to errors. We also recommend that you avoid nesting scope functions and be careful when chaining them because it's easy to get confused about the current context object and value of `this` or `it` . 

## **Distinctions** 

Because scope functions are similar in nature, it's important to understand the differences between them. There are two main differences between each scope function: 

- The way they refer to the context object. 

- 

- Their return value. 

## **Context object: this or it** 

Inside the lambda passed to a scope function, the context object is available by a short reference instead of its actual name. Each scope function uses one of two ways to reference the context object: as a lambda receiver ( `this` ) or as a lambda argument ( `it` ). Both provide the same capabilities, so we describe the pros and cons of each for different use cases and provide recommendations for their use. 

```
funmain(){
val str ="Hello"
// this
    str.run{
println("The string's length: $length")
//println("The string's length: ${this.length}") // does the same
}
// it
    str.let{
println("The string's length is ${it.length}")
```

1150 

```
}
}
```

## **this** 

`run` , `with` , and `apply` reference the context object as a lambda receiver - by keyword `this` . Hence, in their lambdas, the object is available as it would be in ordinary class functions. 

In most cases, you can omit `this` when accessing the members of the receiver object, making the code shorter. On the other hand, if `this` is omitted, it can be hard to distinguish between the receiver members and external objects or functions. So having the context object as a receiver ( `this` ) is recommended for lambdas that mainly operate on the object's members by calling its functions or assigning values to properties. 

```
dataclassPerson(var name: String,var age: Int =0,var city: String ="")
funmain(){
val adam =Person("Adam").apply{
        age =20// same as this.age = 20
        city ="London"
}
println(adam)
}
```

## **it** 

In turn, `let` and `also` reference the context object as a lambda argument. If the argument name is not specified, the object is accessed by the implicit default name `it` . `it` is shorter than `this` and expressions with `it` are usually easier to read. 

However, when calling the object's functions or properties, you don't have the object available implicitly like `this` . Hence, accessing the context object via `it` is better when the object is mostly used as an argument in function calls. `it` is also better if you use multiple variables in the code block. 

```
import kotlin.random.Random
funwriteToLog(message: String){
println("INFO: $message")
}
funmain(){
fungetRandomInt(): Int {
return Random.nextInt(100).also{
writeToLog("getRandomInt() generated value $it")
}
}
val i =getRandomInt()
println(i)
}
```

The example below demonstrates referencing the context object as a lambda argument with argument name: `value` . 

1151 

```
import kotlin.random.Random
funwriteToLog(message: String){
println("INFO: $message")
}
funmain(){
fungetRandomInt(): Int {
return Random.nextInt(100).also{ value />
writeToLog("getRandomInt() generated value $value")
}
}
val i =getRandomInt()
println(i)
}
```

## **Return value** 

Scope functions differ by the result they return: 

- `apply` and `also` return the context object. 

- `let` , `run` , and `with` return the lambda result. 

You should consider carefully what return value you want based on what you want to do next in your code. This helps you to choose the best scope function to use. 

## **Context object** 

The return value of `apply` and `also` is the context object itself. Hence, they can be included into call chains as side steps: you can continue chaining function calls on the same object, one after another. 

```
funmain(){
val numberList = mutableListOf<Double>()
    numberList.also{println("Populating the list")}
.apply{
add(2.71)
add(3.14)
add(1.0)
}
.also{println("Sorting the list")}
.sort()
println(numberList)
}
```

They also can be used in return statements of functions returning the context object. 

1152 

```
import kotlin.random.Random
```

```
funwriteToLog(message: String){
println("INFO: $message")
}
funmain(){
fungetRandomInt(): Int {
return Random.nextInt(100).also{
writeToLog("getRandomInt() generated value $it")
}
}
val i =getRandomInt()
}
```

## **Lambda result** 

`let` , `run` , and `with` return the lambda result. So you can use them when assigning the result to a variable, chaining operations on the result, and so on. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three")
val countEndsWithE = numbers.run{
add("four")
add("five")
        count { it.endsWith("e")}
}
println("There are $countEndsWithE elements that end with e.")
}
```

Additionally, you can ignore the return value and use a scope function to create a temporary scope for local variables. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three")
with(numbers){
val firstItem =first()
val lastItem =last()
println("First item: $firstItem, last item: $lastItem")
}
}
```

## **Functions** 

To help you choose the right scope function for your use case, we describe them in detail and provide recommendations for use. Technically, scope functions are interchangeable in many cases, so the examples show conventions for using them. 

## **let** 

- **The context object** is available as an argument ( `it` ). 

- **The return value** is the lambda result. 

1153 

`let` can be used to invoke one or more functions on results of call chains. For example, the following code prints the results of two operations on a collection: 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three","four","five")
val resultList = numbers.map{ it.length }.filter{ it >3}
println(resultList)
}
```

With `let` , you can rewrite the above example so that you're not assigning the result of the list operations to a variable: 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three","four","five")
    numbers.map{ it.length }.filter{ it >3}.let{
println(it)
// and more function calls if needed
}
}
```

If the code block passed to `let` contains a single function with `it` as an argument, you can use the method reference ( `::` ) instead of the lambda argument: 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three","four","five")
    numbers.map{ it.length }.filter{ it >3}.let(/:println)
}
```

`let` is often used to execute a code block containing non-null values. To perform actions on a nullable object, use the safe call operator `?.` on it and call `let` with the actions in its lambda. 

```
funprocessNonNullString(str: String){}
funmain(){
val str: String?="Hello"
//processNonNullString(str)       // compilation error: str can be null
val length = str.let{
println("let() called on $it")
processNonNullString(it)// OK: 'it' is not null inside '/.let { }'
        it.length
}
}
```

You can also use `let` to introduce local variables with a limited scope to make your code easier to read. To define a new variable for the context object, provide its name as the lambda argument so that it can be used instead of the default `it` . 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
val modifiedFirstItem = numbers.first().let{ firstItem />
println("The first item of the list is '$firstItem'")
if(firstItem.length /=5) firstItem else"!"+ firstItem +"!"
}.uppercase()
println("First item after modifications: '$modifiedFirstItem'")
}
```

1154 

## **with** 

- **The context object** is available as a receiver ( `this` ). 

- 

- **The return value** is the lambda result. 

As `with` is not an extension function: the context object is passed as an argument, but inside the lambda, it's available as a receiver ( `this` ). 

We recommend using `with` for calling functions on the context object when you don't need to use the returned result. In code, `with` can be read as " with this object, do the following. " 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three")
with(numbers){
println("'with' is called with argument $this")
println("It contains $size elements")
}
}
```

You can also use `with` to introduce a helper object whose properties or functions are used for calculating a value. 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three")
val firstAndLast =with(numbers){
"The first element is ${first()},"+
" the last element is ${last()}"
}
println(firstAndLast)
}
```

## **run** 

- **The context object** is available as a receiver ( `this` ). 

- 

- **The return value** is the lambda result. 

`run` does the same as `with` but it is implemented as an extension function. So like `let` , you can call it on the context object using dot notation. 

`run` is useful when your lambda both initializes objects and computes the return value. 

1155 

```
classMultiportService(var url: String,var port: Int){
funprepareRequest(): String ="Default request"
funquery(request: String): String ="Result for query '$request'"
}
funmain(){
val service =MultiportService("https://example.kotlinlang.org",80)
val result = service.run{
        port =8080
query(prepareRequest()+" to port $port")
}
// the same code written with let() function:
val letResult = service.let{
        it.port =8080
        it.query(it.prepareRequest()+" to port ${it.port}")
}
println(result)
println(letResult)
}
```

You can also invoke `run` as a non-extension function. The non-extension variant of `run` has no context object, but it still returns the lambda result. Non-extension `run` lets you execute a block of several statements where an expression is required. In code, non-extension `run` can be read as " run the code block and compute the result. " 

```
funmain(){
val hexNumberRegex = run {
val digits ="0-9"
val hexDigits ="A-Fa-f"
val sign ="+-"
Regex("[$sign]?[$digits$hexDigits]+")
}
for(match in hexNumberRegex.findAll("+123 -FFFF !%*& 88 XYZ")){
println(match.value)
}
}
```

## **apply** 

- **The context object** is available as a receiver ( `this` ). 

- 

- **The return value** is the object itself. 

As `apply` returns the context object itself, we recommend that you use it for code blocks that don't return a value and that mainly operate on the members of the receiver object. The most common use case for `apply` is for object configuration. Such calls can be read as " apply the following assignments to the object. " 

```
dataclassPerson(var name: String,var age: Int =0,var city: String ="")
funmain(){
val adam =Person("Adam").apply{
        age =32
        city ="London"
}
println(adam)
}
```

1156 

Another use case for `apply` is to include `apply` in multiple call chains for more complex processing. 

## **also** 

- **The context object** is available as an argument ( `it` ). 

- 

- **The return value** is the object itself. 

`also` is useful for performing some actions that take the context object as an argument. Use `also` for actions that need a reference to the object rather than its properties and functions, or when you don't want to shadow the `this` reference from an outer scope. 

When you see `also` in code, you can read it as " and also do the following with the object. " 

```
funmain(){
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three")
    numbers
"
.also{println("The list elements before adding new one: $it)}
.add("four")
}
```

## **takeIf and takeUnless** 

In addition to scope functions, the standard library contains the functions `takeIf` and `takeUnless` . These functions let you embed checks of an object's state in call chains. 

When called on an object along with a predicate, `takeIf` returns this object if it satisfies the given predicate. Otherwise, it returns `null` . So, `takeIf` is a filtering function for a single object. 

`takeUnless` has the opposite logic of `takeIf` . When called on an object along with a predicate, `takeUnless` returns `null` if it satisfies the given predicate. Otherwise, it returns the object. 

When using `takeIf` or `takeUnless` , the object is available as a lambda argument ( `it` ). 

```
import kotlin.random.*
funmain(){
val number = Random.nextInt(100)
val evenOrNull = number.takeIf{ it %2/=0}
val oddOrNull = number.takeUnless{ it %2/=0}
println("even: $evenOrNull, odd: $oddOrNull")
}
```

When chaining other functions after `takeIf` and `takeUnless` , don't forget to perform a null check or use a safe call ( `?.` ) because their return value is nullable. 

```
funmain(){
val str ="Hello"
val caps = str.takeIf{ it.isNotEmpty()}.uppercase()
//val caps = str.takeIf { it.isNotEmpty() }.uppercase() //compilation error
println(caps)
}
```

1157 

`takeIf` and `takeUnless` are especially useful in combination with scope functions. For example, you can chain `takeIf` and `takeUnless` with `let` to run a code block on objects that match the given predicate. To do this, call `takeIf` on the object and then call `let` with a safe call ( `?` ). For objects that don't match the predicate, `takeIf` returns `null` and `let` isn't invoked. 

```
funmain(){
fundisplaySubstringPosition(input: String, sub: String){
        input.indexOf(sub).takeIf{ it /=0}.let{
println("The substring $sub is found in $input.")
println("Its start position is $it.")
}
}
displaySubstringPosition("010000011","11")
displaySubstringPosition("010000011","12")
}
```

For comparison, below is an example of how the same function can be written without using `takeIf` or scope functions: 

```
funmain(){
fundisplaySubstringPosition(input: String, sub: String){
val index = input.indexOf(sub)
if(index /=0){
println("The substring $sub is found in $input.")
println("Its start position is $index.")
}
}
displaySubstringPosition("010000011","11")
displaySubstringPosition("010000011","12")
}
```

## **Time measurement** 

The Kotlin standard library gives you the tools to calculate and measure time in different units. Accurate time measurement is important for activities like: 

- Managing threads or processes 

- Collecting statistics 

- Detecting timeouts 

- Debugging 

By default, time is measured using a monotonic time source, but other time sources can be configured. For more information, see Create time source. 

## **Calculate duration** 

To represent an amount of time, the standard library has the `Duration` class. A `Duration` can be expressed in the following units from the `DurationUnit` enum class: 

- `NANOSECONDS` 

- 

- `MICROSECONDS` 

1158 

- `MILLISECONDS` 

- `SECONDS` 

- `MINUTES` 

- `HOURS` 

- `DAYS` 

- A `Duration` can be positive, negative, zero, positive infinity, or negative infinity. 

## **Create duration** 

To create a `Duration` , use the extension properties available for `Int` , `Long` , and `Double` types: `nanoseconds` , `microseconds` , `milliseconds` , `seconds` , `minutes` , `hours` , and `days` . 

Days refer to periods of 24 hours. They are not calendar days. 

For example: 

```
import kotlin.time.*
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.nanoseconds
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.milliseconds
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.seconds
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.minutes
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.days
```

```
funmain(){
val fiveHundredMilliseconds: Duration =500.milliseconds
val zeroSeconds: Duration =0.seconds
val tenMinutes: Duration =10.minutes
val negativeNanosecond: Duration =(-1).nanoseconds
val infiniteDays: Duration = Double.POSITIVE_INFINITY.days
val negativeInfiniteDays: Duration = Double.NEGATIVE_INFINITY.days
```

```
println(fiveHundredMilliseconds)// 500ms
println(zeroSeconds)// 0s
println(tenMinutes)// 10m
println(negativeNanosecond)// -1ns
println(infiniteDays)// Infinity
println(negativeInfiniteDays)// -Infinity
}
```

You can also perform basic arithmetic with `Duration` objects: 

1159 

```
import kotlin.time.*
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.seconds
```

```
funmain(){
val fiveSeconds: Duration =5.seconds
val thirtySeconds: Duration =30.seconds
println(fiveSeconds + thirtySeconds)
// 35s
println(thirtySeconds - fiveSeconds)
// 25s
println(fiveSeconds *2)
// 10s
println(thirtySeconds /2)
// 15s
println(thirtySeconds / fiveSeconds)
// 6.0
-
println(thirtySeconds)
// -30s
println((-thirtySeconds).absoluteValue)
// 30s
}
```

## **Get string representation** 

It can be useful to have a string representation of a `Duration` so that you can print, serialize, transfer, or store it. 

To get a string representation, use the `.toString()` function. By default, the time is reported using each unit that is present. For example: `1h 0m 45.677s` or `-(6d 5h 5m 28.284s)` 

To configure the output, use the `.toString()` function with your desired `DurationUnit` and number of decimal places as function parameters: 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.milliseconds
import kotlin.time.DurationUnit
```

```
funmain(){
// Print in seconds with 2 decimal places
println(5887.milliseconds.toString(DurationUnit.SECONDS,2))
// 5.89s
}
```

To get an ISO-8601-compatible string, use the `toIsoString()` function: 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.seconds
```

```
funmain(){
println(86420.seconds.toIsoString())// PT24H0M20S
}
```

## **Convert duration** 

To convert your `Duration` into a different `DurationUnit` , use the following properties: 

- `inWholeNanoseconds` 

- `inWholeMicroseconds` 

1160 

- `inWholeSeconds` 

- `inWholeMinutes` 

- `inWholeHours` 

- `inWholeDays` 

For example: 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.minutes
```

```
funmain(){
val thirtyMinutes: Duration =30.minutes
println(thirtyMinutes.inWholeSeconds)
// 1800
}
```

Alternatively, you can use your desired `DurationUnit` as a function parameter in the following extension functions: 

- `.toInt()` 

- `.toDouble()` 

- `.toLong()` 

For example: 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.seconds
import kotlin.time.DurationUnit
```

```
funmain(){
println(270.seconds.toDouble(DurationUnit.MINUTES))
// 4.5
}
```

## **Compare duration** 

To check if `Duration` objects are equal, use the equality operator ( `==` ): 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.hours
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.minutes
```

```
funmain(){
val thirtyMinutes: Duration =30.minutes
val halfHour: Duration =0.5.hours
println(thirtyMinutes /= halfHour)
// true
}
```

To compare `Duration` objects, use the comparison operators ( `<` , `>` ): 

1161 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.microseconds
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.nanoseconds
```

```
funmain(){
println(3000.microseconds <25000.nanoseconds)
// false
}
```

## **Break duration into components** 

To break down a `Duration` into its time components and perform a further action, use the overload of the `toComponents()` function. Add your desired action as a function or lambda expression as a function parameter. 

For example: 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.minutes
```

```
funmain(){
val thirtyMinutes: Duration =30.minutes
println(thirtyMinutes.toComponents{ hours, minutes, _, _ />"${hours}h:${minutes}m"})
// 0h:30m
}
```

In this example, the lambda expression has `hours` and `minutes` as function parameters with underscores ( `_` ) for the unused `seconds` and `nanoseconds` parameters. The expression returns a concatenated string using string templates to get the desired output format of `hours` and `minutes` . 

## **Measure time** 

To track the passage of time, the standard library provides tools so that you can easily: 

- Measure the time taken to execute some code with your desired time unit. 

- Mark a moment in time. 

- Compare and subtract two moments in time. 

- Check how much time has passed since a specific moment in time. 

- Check whether the current time has passed a specific moment in time. 

## **Measure code execution time** 

To measure the time taken to execute a block of code, use the `measureTime` inline function: 

```
import kotlin.time.measureTime
funmain(){
val timeTaken = measureTime {
        Thread.sleep(100)
}
println(timeTaken)// e.g. 103 ms
}
```

To measure the time taken to execute a block of code **and** return the value of the block of code, use inline function 

`measureTimedValue` . 

1162 

For example: 

```
import kotlin.time.measureTimedValue
funmain(){
val(value, timeTaken)= measureTimedValue {
        Thread.sleep(100)
42
}
println(value)// 42
println(timeTaken)// e.g. 103 ms
}
```

By default, both functions use a monotonic time source. 

## **Mark moments in time** 

To mark a specific moment in time, use the `TimeSource` interface and the `markNow()` function to create a `TimeMark` : 

```
import kotlin.time.*
funmain(){
val timeSource = TimeSource.Monotonic
val mark = timeSource.markNow()
}
```

## **Measure differences in time** 

To measure differences between `TimeMark` objects from the same time source, use the subtraction operator `-` ( ). 

To compare `TimeMark` objects from the same time source, use the comparison operators ( `<` , `>` ). 

For example: 

```
import kotlin.time.*
funmain(){
val timeSource = TimeSource.Monotonic
val mark1 = timeSource.markNow()
   Thread.sleep(500)// Sleep 0.5 seconds.
val mark2 = timeSource.markNow()
repeat(4){ n />
val mark3 = timeSource.markNow()
val elapsed1 = mark3 - mark1
val elapsed2 = mark3 - mark2
println("Measurement 1.${n +1}: elapsed1=$elapsed1, elapsed2=$elapsed2, diff=${elapsed1 -
elapsed2}")
}
println(mark2 > mark1)// This is true, as mark2 was captured later than mark1.
// true
}
```

1163 

To check if a deadline has passed or a timeout has been reached, use the `hasPassedNow()` and `hasNotPassedNow()` extension functions: 

```
import kotlin.time.*
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.seconds
funmain(){
val timeSource = TimeSource.Monotonic
val mark1 = timeSource.markNow()
val fiveSeconds: Duration =5.seconds
val mark2 = mark1 + fiveSeconds
// It hasn't been 5 seconds yet
println(mark2.hasPassedNow())
// false
// Wait six seconds
   Thread.sleep(6000)
println(mark2.hasPassedNow())
// true
}
```

## **Time sources** 

By default, time is measured using a monotonic time source. Monotonic time sources only move forward and are not affected by variations like timezones. An alternative to monotonic time is elapsed real time which is also known as wall-clock time. Elapsed real time is measured relative to another point in time. 

## **Default time sources per platform** 

This table explains the default source of monotonic time for each platform: 

Platform Source Kotlin/JVM `System.nanoTime()` Kotlin/JS (Node.js) `process.hrtime()` 

Kotlin/JS (browser) `window.performance.now()` or `Date.now()` Kotlin/Native `std::chrono::high_resolution_clock` or `std::chrono::steady_clock` 

## **Create time source** 

There are some cases where you might want to use a different time source. For example in Android, `System.nanoTime()` only counts time while the device is active. It loses track of time when the device enters deep sleep. To keep track of time while the device is in deep sleep, you can create a time source that uses `SystemClock.elapsedRealtimeNanos()` : 

1164 

```
object RealtimeMonotonicTimeSource :AbstractLongTimeSource(DurationUnit.NANOSECONDS){
overridefunread(): Long = SystemClock.elapsedRealtimeNanos()
}
```

Then you can use your time source to make time measurements: 

```
funmain(){
val elapsed: Duration = RealtimeMonotonicTimeSource.measureTime{
        Thread.sleep(100)
}
println(elapsed)// e.g. 103 ms
}
```

For more information about the `kotlin.time` package, see our standard library API reference. 

## **UUIDs** 

The `Uuid` class represents Universally Unique Identifiers (UUIDs), also known as Globally Unique Identifiers (GUIDs). 

A `Uuid` is a 128-bit value used to uniquely identify an entity without relying on a central system that assigns IDs. This makes UUIDs useful in distributed applications, databases, client-generated records, or Kotlin Multiplatform applications. 

Use the `Uuid` class to work with UUID values. Unlike plain strings, a dedicated UUID type makes your code more explicit and prevents accidental use of invalid values. 

To use UUIDs in your project, import the `Uuid` class from the `kotlin.uuid` package: 

```
import kotlin.uuid.Uuid
```

## **Generate UUIDs** 

To generate a random version 4 UUID for regular identifiers, such as user or database IDs, use the `Uuid.random()` function: 

```
import kotlin.uuid.Uuid
funmain(){
//sampleStart
val id = Uuid.random()
println(id)
}
```

You can also generate specific versions of UUIDs with the following Experimental functions: 

- The `Uuid.generateV4()` function generates the same type of UUID as the `Uuid.random()` function but explicitly states that the value is a version 4 UUID. 

- The `Uuid.generateV7()` function generates a version 7 UUID with a timestamp that you can use for UUID sorting. 

- The `Uuid.generateV7NonMonotonicAt()` function generates a version 7 UUID for a specific moment in time. 

1165 

These UUID generation functions are Experimental. To opt in, use the `@OptIn(ExperimentalUuidApi::class)` annotation or add the following compiler option to your build file: 

## **Gradle** 

```
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        freeCompilerArgs.add("-opt-in=kotlin.uuid.ExperimentalUuidApi")
}
}
```

## **Maven** 

```
<build>
<plugins>
<plugin>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin//groupId>
<artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin//artifactId>
<configuration>
<args>
<arg-opt-in=kotlin.uuid.ExperimentalUuidApi//arg>
//args>
//configuration>
//plugin>
//plugins>
//build>
```

Here's an example that generates version-specific UUIDs: 

```
import kotlin.time.Instant
import kotlin.time.ExperimentalTime
import kotlin.uuid.Uuid
```

```
@OptIn(kotlin.uuid.ExperimentalUuidApi/:class, ExperimentalTime/:class)
funmain(){
```

```
// Generates a version 4 UUID
val idVersion4 = Uuid.generateV4()
println(idVersion4)
```

```
// Generates a version 7 UUID
val idVersion7 = Uuid.generateV7()
println(idVersion7)
```

```
// Generates a version 7 UUID for the specified timestamp
val timestamp = Instant.fromEpochMilliseconds(1757440583000L)
val idVersion7SpecificTime = Uuid.generateV7NonMonotonicAt(timestamp)
println(idVersion7SpecificTime)
}
```

## **Parse UUIDs** 

UUID values are often represented as strings, such as in URL parameters or database records. 

To convert a `String` value to a `Uuid` value, use the `Uuid.parse()` function: 

1166 

```
import kotlin.uuid.Uuid
```

```
funmain(){
val id = Uuid.parse("de2bc56c-ea73-4f3c-8a37-5a46fdb2d79a")
println(id)
}
```

The `Uuid.parse()` function accepts both the standard hex-and-dash format and the hexadecimal format without dashes. 

If the input is invalid, the `Uuid.parse()` function throws an `IllegalArgumentException` : 

```
import kotlin.uuid.Uuid
funmain(){
//sampleStart
val id = Uuid.parse("10")
println(id)
}
```

If your application accepts only one representation, use the format-specific functions: 

- `Uuid.parseHexDash()` for the hex-and-dash string representation. 

- `Uuid.parseHex()` for the hexadecimal string representation without dashes. 

For example: 

```
import kotlin.uuid.Uuid
funmain(){
//sampleStart
val standard = Uuid.parseHexDash("de2bc56c-ea73-4f3c-8a37-5a46fdb2d79a")
val compact = Uuid.parseHex("de2bc56cea734f3c8a375a46fdb2d79a")
```

```
println(standard)
println(compact)
}
```

If you have UUIDs from external sources and must handle invalid input safely, use `Uuid.parseOrNull()` , `Uuid.parseHexDashOrNull()` , or `Uuid.parseHexOrNull()` . These functions return `null` if the input is invalid: 

```
funparseId(input: String): Uuid?{
return Uuid.parseOrNull(input)
}
```

## **Convert UUIDs to strings** 

You can convert a `Uuid` value to a `String` value with the following functions: 

- 

   - `toString()` for the standard string representation 

- 

   - `toHexDashString()` for the hex-and-dash format 

- `toHexString()` for the hexadecimal format without dashes 

For example: 

1167 

```
import kotlin.uuid.Uuid
```

```
funmain(){
//sampleStart
val id = Uuid.parse("de2bc56c-ea73-4f3c-8a37-5a46fdb2d79a")
```

```
println(id.toString())
// de2bc56c-ea73-4f3c-8a37-5a46fdb2d79a
println(id.toHexDashString())
// de2bc56c-ea73-4f3c-8a37-5a46fdb2d79a
println(id.toHexString())
// de2bc56cea734f3c8a375a46fdb2d79a
}
```

## **Compare UUIDs** 

You can check whether `Uuid` values are equal using the `==` operator. 

Kotlin compares values according to the UUID value, not to the textual representation. For example, two values in different forms are equal if they represent the same 128-bit value: 

```
import kotlin.uuid.Uuid
```

```
funmain(){
//sampleStart
val first = Uuid.parse("de2bc56c-ea73-4f3c-8a37-5a46fdb2d79a")
val second = Uuid.parse("de2bc56cea734f3c8a375a46fdb2d79a")
println(first /= second)
// true
}
```

This makes the `Uuid` comparison more reliable than comparing strings, which treats the same value in different formats as different values. `Uuid` comparison checks the actual identifier value. 

`Uuid` implements the `Comparable<Uuid>` interface, so UUID values can be sorted with standard collection functions such as `sorted()` . In that case, Kotlin compares values lexicographically (from the most to the least significant bit): 

```
import kotlin.uuid.Uuid
funmain(){
//sampleStart
val first = Uuid.generateV7()
val second = Uuid.generateV7()
val sorted =listOf(first, second).sorted()
println(sorted)
}
```

## **Work with binary representations** 

Some APIs, storage formats, and binary protocols do not represent UUIDs as strings. Instead, they store the 128bit UUID value as either: 

- A 16-byte array 

1168 

## • Two 64-bit values 

Use these representations when you need to exchange UUIDs with systems that expect binary UUID data. 

To convert between a UUID and a 16-byte representation, use the `.toByteArray()` and `Uuid.fromByteArray()` functions: 

```
import kotlin.uuid.Uuid
funmain(){
//sampleStart
val id = Uuid.random()
val bytes = id.toByteArray()
val original = Uuid.fromByteArray(bytes)
println(id)
println(bytes)
println(original)
println(id /= original)
// true
}
```

You can also represent the same 128-bit UUID value as two `Long` values. This is useful because Kotlin doesn't provide a built-in 128-bit integer type. The two `Long` values store the UUID in two parts: 

- 

   - The `mostSignificantBits` parameter for the first 64 bits of a UUID. 

- 

- The `leastSignificantBits` parameter for the last 64 bits of a UUID. 

To create a `Uuid` value from two `Long` values, use the `Uuid.fromLongs()` function: 

```
import kotlin.uuid.Uuid
funmain(){
//sampleStart
val id = Uuid.fromLongs(
        mostSignificantBits =-4653685776373167443,
        leastSignificantBits =-6288180676521310383.toLong()
)
println(id)
// bf6ac971-52fd-4aad-a8bb-e4fdac78c751
}
```

To extract the two parts from an existing `Uuid` value, use the `Uuid.toLongs()` function: 

```
import kotlin.uuid.Uuid
funmain(){
//sampleStart
val id = Uuid.random()
    id.toLongs{ mostSignificantBits, leastSignificantBits />
println(mostSignificantBits)
println(leastSignificantBits)
}
}
```

1169 

## **Serialize UUIDs** 

Kotlin supports serialization for `Uuid` values. Use it to store or transfer a UUID value outside Kotlin code, for example, in JSON APIs or configuration files. 

To serialize a `Uuid` value, represent it as a string unless your application requires another format. The 

`kotlinx.serialization` library uses the hex-and-dash format: 

```
//sampleStart
import kotlin.uuid.Uuid
import kotlinx.serialization.Serializable
import kotlinx.serialization.encodeToString
import kotlinx.serialization.json.Json
@Serializable
dataclassUser(
val id: Uuid,
val name: String
)
funmain(){
val user =User(
        id = Uuid.parse("de2bc56cea734f3c8a375a46fdb2d79a"),
        name ="Kotlin"
)
println(Json.encodeToString(user))
// {"id":"de2bc56c-ea73-4f3c-8a37-5a46fdb2d79a","name":"Kotlin"}
}
```

## **Use UUIDs with Java APIs** 

Java uses the `java.util.UUID` class to represent UUIDs. On the JVM, Java APIs may accept or return this type. Although `java.util.UUID` and `kotlin.uuid.Uuid` both represent UUIDs, they are two distinct types. 

Convert values explicitly to pass UUIDs between Kotlin and Java: 

- Convert a Java UUID to Kotlin with the `.toKotlinUuid()` extension function: 

```
import kotlin.uuid.toKotlinUuid
val kotlinId: Uuid = javaId.toKotlinUuid()
```

- Convert a Kotlin UUID to Java with the `.toJavaUuid()` extension function: 

```
import kotlin.uuid.toJavaUuid
val javaId: java.util.UUID = kotlinId.toJavaUuid()
```

These functions allow you to represent your UUID values using `Uuid` at JVM interoperability boundaries. 

The `java.util.UUID` and `kotlin.uuid.Uuid` classes are comparable, but the ordering may differ. Make sure to check your code that depends on UUID ordering before migrating from the Java API to the Kotlin API. 

1170 

Kotlin also provides support for working with Java buffers. Use JVM-specific functions to work with UUIDs in a `ByteBuffer` : 

- Use the `.getUuid()` function to read a UUID from a buffer. 

- 

- Use the `.putUuid()` function to write a UUID to a buffer. 

## **Coroutines guide** 

Kotlin provides only minimal low-level APIs in its standard library to enable other libraries to utilize coroutines. Unlike many other languages with similar capabilities, `async` and `await` are not keywords in Kotlin and are not even part of its standard library. Moreover, Kotlin's concept of suspending function provides a safer and less errorprone abstraction for asynchronous operations than futures and promises. 

`kotlinx.coroutines` is a rich library for coroutines developed by JetBrains. It contains a number of high-level coroutine-enabled primitives that this guide covers, including `launch` , `async` , and others. 

This is a guide about the core features of `kotlinx.coroutines` with a series of examples, divided up into different topics. 

In order to use coroutines as well as follow the examples in this guide, you need to add a dependency on the `kotlinx-coroutines-core` module as explained in the project README. 

## **Table of contents** 

- Coroutines basics 

- Tutorial: Intro to coroutines and channels 

- Cancellation and timeouts 

- Composing suspending functions 

- Coroutine context and dispatchers 

- Asynchronous Flow 

- Channels 

- Coroutine exceptions handling 

- Shared mutable state and concurrency 

- Select expression (experimental) 

- 

- 

- Tutorial: Debug coroutines using Intelli IDEA 

- Tutorial: Debug Kotlin Flow using Intelli IDEA 

## **Additional references** 

- Guide to UI programming with coroutines 

- Coroutines design document (KEEP) 

- Full kotlinx.coroutines API reference 

- 

- Best practices for coroutines in Android 

1171 

• Additional Android resources for Kotlin coroutines and flow 

## **Coroutines basics** 

To create applications that perform multiple tasks at once, a concept known as concurrency, Kotlin uses coroutines. A coroutine is a suspendable computation that lets you write concurrent code in a clear, sequential style. Coroutines can run concurrently with other coroutines and potentially in parallel. 

On the JVM and in Kotlin/Native, all concurrent code, such as coroutines, runs on threads, managed by the operating system. Coroutines can suspend their execution instead of blocking a thread. This allows one coroutine to suspend while waiting for some data to arrive and another coroutine to run on the same thread, ensuring effective resource utilization. 

**==> picture [524 x 330] intentionally omitted <==**

Comparing parallel and concurrent threads 

For more information about the differences between coroutines and threads, see Comparing coroutines and JVM threads. 

## **Suspending functions** 

The most basic building block of coroutines is the suspending function. It allows a running operation to pause and resume later without affecting the structure of your code. 

To declare a suspending function, use the `suspend` keyword: 

```
suspendfungreet(){
println("Hello world from a suspending function")
}
```

1172 

You can only call a suspending function from another suspending function. To call suspending functions at the entry point of a Kotlin application, mark the `main()` function with the `suspend` keyword: 

```
suspendfunmain(){
showUserInfo()
}
suspendfunshowUserInfo(){
println("Loading user//.")
greet()
println("User: John Smith")
}
suspendfungreet(){
println("Hello world from a suspending function")
}
```

This example doesn't use concurrency yet, but by marking the functions with the `suspend` keyword, you allow them to call other suspending functions and run concurrent code inside. 

While the `suspend` keyword is part of the core Kotlin language, most coroutine features are available through the `kotlinx.coroutines` library. 

## **Add the kotlinx.coroutines library to your project** 

To include the `kotlinx.coroutines` library in your project, add the corresponding dependency configuration based on your build tool: 

**Kotlin** 

```
// build.gradle.kts
repositories {
mavenCentral()
}
dependencies {
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-coroutines-core:1.11.0")
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
// build.gradle
repositories {
mavenCentral()
}
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-coroutines-core:1.11.0'
}
```

1173 

## **Maven** 

```
///- pom.xml //>
<project>
<dependencies>
<dependency>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlinx//groupId>
<artifactId>kotlinx-coroutines-core//artifactId>
<version>1.11.0//version>
//dependency>
//dependencies>
    //.
//project>
```

## **Create your first coroutines** 

The examples on this page use the explicit `this` expression with the coroutine builder functions `CoroutineScope.launch()` and `CoroutineScope.async()` . These coroutine builders are extension 

functions on `CoroutineScope` , and the `this` expression refers to the current `CoroutineScope` as the receiver. 

For a practical example, see Extract coroutine builders from the coroutine scope. 

To create a coroutine in Kotlin, you need the following: 

- A suspending function. 

- 

   - A coroutine scope in which it can run, for example inside the `withContext()` function. 

- 

   - A coroutine builder like `CoroutineScope.launch()` to start it. 

- 

- A dispatcher to control which threads it uses. 

Let's look at an example that uses multiple coroutines in a multithreaded environment: 

1. Import the `kotlinx.coroutines` library: 

```
import kotlinx.coroutines.*
```

2. Mark functions that can pause and resume with the `suspend` keyword: 

```
suspendfungreet(){
println("The greet() on the thread: ${Thread.currentThread().name}")
}
suspendfunmain(){}
```

While you can mark the `main()` function as `suspend` in some projects, it may not be possible when integrating with existing code or using a framework. In that case, check the framework's documentation to see if it supports calling suspending functions. If not, use `runBlocking()` to call them by blocking the current thread. 

3. Add the `delay()` function to simulate a suspending task, such as fetching data or writing to a database: 

1174 

```
suspendfungreet(){
```

```
println("The greet() on the thread: ${Thread.currentThread().name}")
delay(1000L)
}
```

## 4. Use `withContext(Dispatchers.Default)` to define an entry point for multithreaded concurrent code that runs on a shared thread pool: 

```
suspendfunmain(){
withContext(Dispatchers.Default){
// Add the coroutine builders here
}
}
```

The suspending `withContext()` function is typically used for context switching, but in this example, it also defines a non-blocking entry point for concurrent code. It uses the `Dispatchers.Default` dispatcher to run code on a shared thread pool for multithreaded execution. By default, this pool uses up to as many threads as there are CPU cores available at runtime, with a minimum of two threads. 

The coroutines launched inside the `withContext()` block share the same coroutine scope, which ensures structured concurrency. 

## 5. Use a coroutine builder function like `CoroutineScope.launch()` to start the coroutine: 

```
suspendfunmain(){
withContext(Dispatchers.Default){// this: CoroutineScope
// Starts a coroutine inside the scope with CoroutineScope.launch()
this.launch{greet()}
println("The withContext() on the thread: ${Thread.currentThread().name}")
}
}
```

6. Combine these pieces to run multiple coroutines at the same time on a shared pool of threads: 

1175 

```
// Imports the coroutines library
import kotlinx.coroutines.*
```

```
// Imports the kotlin.time.Duration to express duration in seconds
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.seconds
```

```
// Defines a suspending function
suspendfungreet(){
println("The greet() on the thread: ${Thread.currentThread().name}")
// Suspends for 1 second and releases the thread
delay(1.seconds)
// The delay() function simulates a suspending API call here
// You can add suspending API calls here like a network request
}
suspendfunmain(){
// Runs the code inside this block on a shared thread pool
withContext(Dispatchers.Default){// this: CoroutineScope
this.launch(){
greet()
}
// Starts another coroutine
this.launch(){
println("The CoroutineScope.launch() on the thread: ${Thread.currentThread().name}")
delay(1.seconds)
// The delay function simulates a suspending API call here
// You can add suspending API calls here like a network request
}
println("The withContext() on the thread: ${Thread.currentThread().name}")
}
}
```

Try running the example multiple times. You may notice that the output order and thread names may change each time you run the program, because the OS decides when threads run. 

You can display coroutine names next to thread names in the output of your code for additional information. To do so, pass the `-Dkotlinx.coroutines.debug` VM option in your build tool or IDE run configuration. 

See Debugging coroutines for more information. 

## **Coroutine scope and structured concurrency** 

When you run many coroutines in an application, you need a way to manage them as groups. Kotlin coroutines rely on a principle called structured concurrency to provide this structure. 

According to this principle, coroutines form a tree hierarchy of parent and child tasks with linked lifecycles. A coroutine's lifecycle is the sequence of states from its creation until completion, failure, or cancellation. 

A parent coroutine waits for its children to complete before it finishes. If the parent coroutine fails or gets canceled, all its child coroutines are recursively canceled too. Keeping coroutines connected this way makes cancellation and error handling predictable and safe. 

To maintain structured concurrency, new coroutines can only be launched in a `CoroutineScope` that defines and manages their lifecycle. The `CoroutineScope` includes the coroutine context, which defines the dispatcher and 

1176 

other execution properties. When you start a coroutine inside another coroutine, it automatically becomes a child of its parent scope. 

Calling a coroutine builder function, such as `CoroutineScope.launch()` on a `CoroutineScope` , starts a child coroutine of the coroutine associated with that scope. Inside the builder's block, the receiver is a nested `CoroutineScope` , so any coroutines you launch there become its children. 

## **Create a coroutine scope with the** **`coroutineScope()` function** 

To create a new coroutine scope with the current coroutine context, use the `coroutineScope()` function. This function creates a root coroutine of the coroutine subtree. It's the direct parent of coroutines launched inside the block and the indirect parent of any coroutines they launch. `coroutineScope()` executes the suspending block and waits until the block and any coroutines launched in it complete. 

Here's an example: 

```
// Imports the kotlin.time.Duration to express duration in seconds
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.seconds
```

```
import kotlinx.coroutines.*
```

```
// If the coroutine context doesn't specify a dispatcher,
// CoroutineScope.launch() uses Dispatchers.Default
suspendfunmain(){
// Root of the coroutine subtree
    coroutineScope {// this: CoroutineScope
this.launch{
this.launch{
delay(2.seconds)
println("Child of the enclosing coroutine completed")
}
println("Child coroutine 1 completed")
}
this.launch{
delay(1.seconds)
println("Child coroutine 2 completed")
}
}
// Runs only after all children in the coroutineScope have completed
println("Coroutine scope completed")
}
```

Since no dispatcher is specified in this example, the `CoroutineScope.launch()` builder functions in the `coroutineScope()` block inherit the current context. If that context doesn't have a specified dispatcher, `CoroutineScope.launch()` uses `Dispatchers.Default` , which runs on a shared pool of threads. 

## **Extract coroutine builders from the coroutine scope** 

In some cases, you may want to extract coroutine builder calls, such as `CoroutineScope.launch()` , into separate functions. 

Consider the following example: 

1177 

```
suspendfunmain(){
    coroutineScope {// this: CoroutineScope
// Calls CoroutineScope.launch() where CoroutineScope is the receiver
this.launch{println("1")}
this.launch{println("2")}
}
}
```

You can also write `this.launch` without the explicit `this` expression, as `launch` . These examples use explicit `this` expressions to highlight that it's an extension function on `CoroutineScope` . 

For more information on how lambdas with receivers work in Kotlin, see Function literals with receiver. 

The `coroutineScope()` function takes a lambda with a `CoroutineScope` receiver. Inside this lambda, the implicit receiver is a `CoroutineScope` , so builder functions like `CoroutineScope.launch()` and `CoroutineScope.async()` resolve as extension functions on that receiver. 

To extract the coroutine builders into another function, that function must declare a `CoroutineScope` receiver, otherwise a compilation error occurs: 

```
import kotlinx.coroutines.*
suspendfunmain(){
    coroutineScope {
launchAll()
}
}
fun CoroutineScope.launchAll(){// this: CoroutineScope
// Calls .launch() on CoroutineScope
this.launch{println("1")}
this.launch{println("2")}
}
/* /- Calling launch without declaring CoroutineScope as the receiver results in a compilation error -
-
```

```
fun launchAll() {
    // Compilation error: this is not defined
    this.launch { println("1") }
    this.launch { println("2") }
}
 //
```

## **Coroutine builder functions** 

A coroutine builder function is a function that accepts a `suspend` lambda that defines a coroutine to run. Here are some examples: 

- `CoroutineScope.launch()` 

- 

   - `CoroutineScope.async()` 

- 

   - `runBlocking()` 

- 

   - `withContext()` 

- `coroutineScope()` 

1178 

Coroutine builder functions require a `CoroutineScope` to run in. This can be an existing scope or one you create with helper functions such as `coroutineScope()` , `runBlocking()` , or `withContext()` . Each builder defines how the coroutine starts and how you interact with its result. 

## **`CoroutineScope.launch()`** 

The `CoroutineScope.launch()` coroutine builder function is an extension function on `CoroutineScope` . It starts a new coroutine without blocking the rest of the scope, inside an existing coroutine scope. 

Use `CoroutineScope.launch()` to run a task alongside other work when the result isn't needed or you don't want to wait for it: 

```
// Imports the kotlin.time.Duration to enable expressing duration in milliseconds
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.milliseconds
import kotlinx.coroutines.*
suspendfunmain(){
withContext(Dispatchers.Default){
performBackgroundWork()
}
}
suspendfunperformBackgroundWork()= coroutineScope {// this: CoroutineScope
// Starts a coroutine that runs without blocking the scope
this.launch{
// Suspends to simulate background work
delay(100.milliseconds)
println("Sending notification in background")
}
// Main coroutine continues while a previous one suspends
println("Scope continues")
}
```

After running this example, you can see that the `main()` function isn't blocked by `CoroutineScope.launch()` and keeps running other code while the coroutine works in the background. 

The `CoroutineScope.launch()` function returns a `Job` handle. Use this handle to wait for the launched coroutine to complete. For more information, see Cancellation and timeouts. 

## **`CoroutineScope.async()`** 

The `CoroutineScope.async()` coroutine builder function is an extension function on `CoroutineScope` . It starts a concurrent computation inside an existing coroutine scope and returns a `Deferred` handle that represents an eventual result. Use the `.await()` function to suspend the code until the result is ready: 

1179 

```
// Imports the kotlin.time.Duration to enable expressing duration in milliseconds
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.milliseconds
```

```
import kotlinx.coroutines.*
```

```
suspendfunmain()=withContext(Dispatchers.Default){// this: CoroutineScope
// Starts downloading the first page
val firstPage =this.async{
delay(50.milliseconds)
"First page"
}
// Starts downloading the second page in parallel
val secondPage =this.async{
delay(100.milliseconds)
"Second page"
}
// Awaits both results and compares them
val pagesAreEqual = firstPage.await()/= secondPage.await()
println("Pages are equal: $pagesAreEqual")
}
```

## **`runBlocking()`** 

The `runBlocking()` coroutine builder function creates a coroutine scope and blocks the current thread until the coroutines launched in that scope finish. 

Use `runBlocking()` only when there is no other option to call suspending code from non-suspending code: 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.milliseconds
import kotlinx.coroutines.*
// A third-party interface you can't change
interface Repository {
funreadItem(): Int
}
object MyRepository : Repository {
overridefunreadItem(): Int {
// Bridges to a suspending function
return runBlocking {
myReadItem()
}
}
}
suspendfunmyReadItem(): Int {
delay(100.milliseconds)
return4
}
```

## **Coroutine dispatchers** 

A coroutine dispatcher controls which thread or thread pool coroutines use for their execution. Coroutines aren't always tied to a single thread. They can pause on one thread and resume on another, depending on the dispatcher. This lets you run many coroutines at the same time without allocating a separate thread for every coroutine. 

1180 

Even though coroutines can suspend and resume on different threads, values written before the coroutine suspends are still guaranteed to be available within the same coroutine when it resumes. 

A dispatcher works together with the coroutine scope to define when coroutines run and where they run. While the coroutine scope controls the coroutine's lifecycle, the dispatcher controls which threads are used for execution. 

You don't have to specify a dispatcher for every coroutine. By default, coroutines inherit the dispatcher from their parent scope. You can specify a dispatcher to run a coroutine in a different context. 

If the coroutine context doesn't include a dispatcher, coroutine builders use `Dispatchers.Default` . 

The `kotlinx.coroutines` library includes different dispatchers for different use cases. For example, `Dispatchers.Default` runs coroutines on a shared pool of threads, performing work in the background, separate from the main thread. This makes it an ideal choice for CPU-intensive operations like data processing. 

To specify a dispatcher for a coroutine builder like `CoroutineScope.launch()` , pass it as an argument: 

```
suspendfunrunWithDispatcher()= coroutineScope {// this: CoroutineScope
this.launch(Dispatchers.Default){
println("Running on ${Thread.currentThread().name}")
}
}
```

Alternatively, you can use a `withContext()` block to run all code in it on a specified dispatcher: 

```
// Imports the kotlin.time.Duration to enable expressing duration in milliseconds
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.milliseconds
```

```
import kotlinx.coroutines.*
suspendfunmain()=withContext(Dispatchers.Default){// this: CoroutineScope
println("Running withContext block on ${Thread.currentThread().name}")
val one =this.async{
println("First calculation starting on ${Thread.currentThread().name}")
val sum =(1L/.500_000L).sum()
delay(200L)
println("First calculation done on ${Thread.currentThread().name}")
        sum
}
val two =this.async{
println("Second calculation starting on ${Thread.currentThread().name}")
val sum =(500_001L/.1_000_000L).sum()
println("Second calculation done on ${Thread.currentThread().name}")
        sum
}
// Waits for both calculations and prints the result
println("Combined total: ${one.await()+ two.await()}")
}
```

To learn more about coroutine dispatchers and their uses, including other dispatchers like `Dispatchers.IO` and `Dispatchers.Main` , see Coroutine context and dispatchers. 

1181 

## **Comparing coroutines and JVM threads** 

While coroutines are suspendable computations that run code concurrently like threads on the JVM, they work differently under the hood. 

A thread is managed by the operating system. Threads can run tasks in parallel on multiple CPU cores and represent a standard approach to concurrency on the JVM. When you create a thread, the operating system allocates memory for its stack and uses the kernel to switch between threads. This makes threads powerful but also resource-intensive. Each thread usually needs a few megabytes of memory, and typically the JVM can only handle a few thousand threads at once. 

On the other hand, a coroutine isn't bound to a specific thread. It can suspend on one thread and resume on another, so many coroutines can share the same thread pool. When a coroutine suspends, the thread isn't blocked and remains free to run other tasks. This makes coroutines much lighter than threads and allows running millions of them in one process without exhausting system resources. 

**==> picture [524 x 282] intentionally omitted <==**

## Comparing coroutines and threads 

Let's look at an example where 50,000 coroutines each wait five seconds and then print a period ( `.` ): 

1182 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.seconds
import kotlinx.coroutines.*
suspendfunmain(){
withContext(Dispatchers.Default){
// Launches 50,000 coroutines that each wait five seconds, then print a period
printPeriods()
}
}
suspendfunprintPeriods()= coroutineScope {// this: CoroutineScope
// Launches 50,000 coroutines that each wait five seconds, then print a period
repeat(50_000){
this.launch{
delay(5.seconds)
print(".")
}
}
}
```

Now let's look at the same example using JVM threads: 

```
import kotlin.concurrent.thread
funmain(){
repeat(50_000){
        thread {
            Thread.sleep(5000L)
print(".")
}
}
}
```

Running this version uses much more memory because each thread needs its own memory stack. For 50,000 threads, that can be up to 100 GB, compared to roughly 500 MB for the same number of coroutines. 

Depending on your operating system, JDK version, and settings, the JVM thread version may throw an out-ofmemory error or slow down thread creation to avoid running too many threads at once. 

## **What's next** 

- Discover more about combining suspending functions in Composing suspending functions. 

- 

   - Learn how to cancel coroutines and handle timeouts in Cancellation and timeouts. 

- 

   - Dive deeper into coroutine execution and thread management in Coroutine context and dispatchers. 

- 

- Learn how to return multiple asynchronously computed values in Asynchronous flows. 

## **Coroutines and channels − tutorial** 

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to use coroutines in IntelliJ IDEA to perform network requests without blocking the underlying thread or callbacks. 

No prior knowledge of coroutines is required, but you're expected to be familiar with basic Kotlin syntax. 

1183 

You'll learn: 

- 

   - Why and how to use suspending functions to perform network requests. 

- 

   - How to send requests concurrently using coroutines. 

- 

- How to share information between different coroutines using channels. 

For network requests, you'll need the Retrofit library, but the approach shown in this tutorial works similarly for any other libraries that support coroutines. 

You can find solutions for all of the tasks on the `solutions` branch of the project's repository. 

## **Before you start** 

1. 

   - Download and install the latest version of Intelli IDEA. 

2. Clone the project template by choosing **Get from VCS** on the Welcome screen or selecting **File | New | Project from Version Control** . 

You can also clone it from the command line: 

```
git clone https://github.com/kotlin-hands-on/intro-coroutines
```

## **Generate a GitHub developer token** 

You'll be using the GitHub API in your project. To get access, provide your GitHub account name and either a password or a token. If you have two-factor authentication enabled, a token will be enough. 

Generate a new GitHub token to use the GitHub API with your account: 

1. Specify the name of your token, for example, `coroutines-tutorial` : 

**==> picture [511 x 191] intentionally omitted <==**

Generate a new GitHub token 

2. Do not select any scopes. Click **Generate token** at the bottom of the page. 

3. Copy the generated token. 

1184 

## **Run the code** 

The program loads the contributors for all of the repositories under the given organization (named "kotlin" by default). Later you'll add logic to sort the users by the number of their contributions. 

1. Open the `src/contributors/main.kt` file and run the `main()` function. You'll see the following window: 

**==> picture [376 x 342] intentionally omitted <==**

First window 

If the font is too small, adjust it by changing the value of `setDefaultFontSize(18f)` in the `main()` function. 

2. Provide your GitHub username and token (or password) in the corresponding fields. 

3. Make sure that the BLOCKING option is selected in the Variant dropdown menu. 

4. Click Load contributors. The UI should freeze for some time and then show the list of contributors. 

5. Open the program output to ensure the data has been loaded. The list of contributors is logged after each successful request. 

There are different ways of implementing this logic: by using blocking requests or callbacks. You'll compare these solutions with one that uses coroutines and see how channels can be used to share information between different coroutines. 

## **Blocking requests** 

You will use the Retrofit library to perform HTTP requests to GitHub. It allows requesting the list of repositories under the given organization and the list of contributors for each repository: 

1185 

```
interface GitHubService {
@GET("orgs/{org}/repos?per_page=100")
fungetOrgReposCall(
@Path("org") org: String
): Call<List<Repo>
@GET("repos/{owner}/{repo}/contributors?per_page=100")
fungetRepoContributorsCall(
@Path("owner") owner: String,
@Path("repo") repo: String
): Call<List<User>
}
```

This API is used by the `loadContributorsBlocking()` function to fetch the list of contributors for the given organization. 

1. Open `src/tasks/Request1Blocking.kt` to see its implementation: 

```
funloadContributorsBlocking(
    service: GitHubService,
    req: RequestData
): List<User>{
val repos = service
.getOrgReposCall(req.org)// #1
.execute()// #2
.also{logRepos(req, it)}// #3
.body()/:emptyList()// #4
return repos.flatMap{ repo />
        service
.getRepoContributorsCall(req.org, repo.name)// #1
.execute()// #2
.also{logUsers(repo, it)}// #3
.bodyList()// #4
}.aggregate()
}
```

   - At first, you get a list of the repositories under the given organization and store it in the `repos` list. Then for each repository, the list of contributors is requested, and all of the lists are merged into one final list of contributors. 

   - `getOrgReposCall()` and `getRepoContributorsCall()` both return an instance of the `*Call` class ( `#1` ). 

   - At this point, no request is sent. 

   - `*Call.execute()` is then invoked to perform the request ( `#2` ). `execute()` is a synchronous call that 

   - blocks the underlying thread. 

   - When you get the response, the result is logged by calling the specific `logRepos()` and `logUsers()` functions ( `#3` ). If the HTTP response contains an error, this error will be logged here. 

   - Finally, get the response's body, which contains the data you need. For this tutorial, you'll use an empty list as a result in case there is an error, and you'll log the corresponding error ( `#4` ). 

2. To avoid repeating `.body() ?: emptyList()` , an extension function `bodyList()` is declared: 

```
fun<T> Response<List<T>.bodyList(): List<T>{
returnbody()/:emptyList()
}
```

3. Run the program again and take a look at the system output in IntelliJ IDEA. It should have something like this: 

1186 

```
1770 [AWT-EventQueue-0] INFO  Contributors - kotlin: loaded 40 repos
2025 [AWT-EventQueue-0] INFO  Contributors - kotlin-examples: loaded 23 contributors
2229 [AWT-EventQueue-0] INFO  Contributors - kotlin-koans: loaded 45 contributors
//.
```

- The first item on each line is the number of milliseconds that have passed since the program started, then the thread name in square brackets. You can see from which thread the loading request is called. 

- The final item on each line is the actual message: how many repositories or contributors were loaded. 

This log output demonstrates that all of the results were logged from the main thread. When you run the code with a BLOCKING option, the window freezes and doesn't react to input until the loading is finished. All of the requests are executed from the same thread as the one called `loadContributorsBlocking()` is from, which is the main UI thread (in Swing, it's an AWT event dispatching thread). This main thread becomes blocked, and that's why the UI is frozen: 

**==> picture [511 x 43] intentionally omitted <==**

The blocked main thread 

After the list of contributors has loaded, the result is updated. 

4. In `src/contributors/Contributors.kt` , find the `loadContributors()` function responsible for choosing how the contributors are loaded and look at how `loadContributorsBlocking()` is called: 

```
when(getSelectedVariant()){
    BLOCKING />{// Blocking UI thread
val users =loadContributorsBlocking(service, req)
updateResults(users, startTime)
}
}
```

- 

   - The `updateResults()` call goes right after the `loadContributorsBlocking()` call. 

- 

   - `updateResults()` updates the UI, so it must always be called from the UI thread. 

- Since `loadContributorsBlocking()` is also called from the UI thread, the UI thread becomes blocked and the UI is frozen. 

## **Task 1** 

The first task helps you familiarize yourself with the task domain. Currently, each contributor's name is repeated several times, once for every project they have taken part in. Implement the `aggregate()` function combining the users so that each contributor is added only once. The `User.contributions` property should contain the total number of contributions of the given user to all the projects. The resulting list should be sorted in descending order according to the number of contributions. 

Open `src/tasks/Aggregation.kt` and implement the `List<User>.aggregate()` function. Users should be sorted by the total number of their contributions. 

The corresponding test file `test/tasks/AggregationKtTest.kt` shows an example of the expected result. 

1187 

You can jump between the source code and the test class automatically by using the Intelli IDEA shortcut `Ctrl+Shift+T` / ⇧ ⌘ `T` . 

After implementing this task, the resulting list for the "kotlin" organization should be similar to the following: 

**==> picture [375 x 341] intentionally omitted <==**

The list for the "kotlin" organization 

## **Solution for task 1** 

1. To group users by login, use `groupBy()` , which returns a map from a login to all occurrences of the user with this login in different repositories. 

2. For each map entry, count the total number of contributions for each user and create a new instance of the `User` class by the given name and total of contributions. 

3. Sort the resulting list in descending order: 

```
fun List<User>.aggregate(): List<User>=
    groupBy { it.login }
.map{(login, group)/>User(login, group.sumOf{ it.contributions })}
.sortedByDescending{ it.contributions }
```

An alternative solution is to use the `groupingBy()` function instead of `groupBy()` . 

## **Callbacks** 

The previous solution works, but it blocks the thread and therefore freezes the UI. A traditional approach that avoids this is to use callbacks. 

1188 

Instead of calling the code that should be invoked right after the operation is completed, you can extract it into a separate callback, often a lambda, and pass that lambda to the caller in order for it to be called later. 

To make the UI responsive, you can either move the whole computation to a separate thread or switch to the Retrofit API which uses callbacks instead of blocking calls. 

## **Use a background thread** 

1. Open `src/tasks/Request2Background.kt` and see its implementation. First, the whole computation is moved to a different thread. The `thread()` function starts a new thread: 

```
thread {
loadContributorsBlocking(service, req)
}
```

Now that all of the loading has been moved to a separate thread, the main thread is free and can be occupied by other tasks: 

**==> picture [511 x 71] intentionally omitted <==**

The freed main thread 

2. The signature of the `loadContributorsBackground()` function changes. It takes an `updateResults()` callback as the last argument to call it after all the loading completes: 

```
funloadContributorsBackground(
    service: GitHubService, req: RequestData,
    updateResults:(List<User>)/> Unit
)
```

3. Now when the `loadContributorsBackground()` is called, the `updateResults()` call goes in the callback, not immediately afterward as it did before: 

```
loadContributorsBackground(service, req){ users />
    SwingUtilities.invokeLater{
updateResults(users, startTime)
}
}
```

By calling `SwingUtilities.invokeLater` , you ensure that the `updateResults()` call, which updates the results, happens on the main UI thread (AWT event dispatching thread). 

However, if you try to load the contributors via the `BACKGROUND` option, you can see that the list is updated but nothing changes in UI. 

## **Task 2** 

Fix the `loadContributorsBackground()` function in `src/tasks/Request2Background.kt` so that the resulting list is shown in the UI. 

1189 

## **Solution for task 2** 

If you try to load the contributors, you can see in the log that the contributors are loaded but the result isn't displayed. To fix this, call `updateResults()` on the resulting list of users: 

```
thread {
updateResults(loadContributorsBlocking(service, req))
}
```

Make sure to call the logic passed in the callback explicitly. Otherwise, nothing will happen. 

## **Use the Retrofit callback API** 

In the previous solution, the whole loading logic is moved to the background thread, but that still isn't the best use of resources. All of the loading requests go sequentially and the thread is blocked while waiting for the loading result, while it could have been occupied by other tasks. Specifically, the thread could start loading another request to receive the entire result earlier. 

Handling the data for each repository should then be divided into two parts: loading and processing the resulting response. The second processing part should be extracted into a callback. 

The loading for each repository can then be started before the result for the previous repository is received (and the corresponding callback is called): 

**==> picture [524 x 91] intentionally omitted <==**

Using callback API 

The Retrofit callback API can help achieve this. The `Call.enqueue()` function starts an HTTP request and takes a callback as an argument. In this callback, you need to specify what needs to be done after each request. 

Open `src/tasks/Request3Callbacks.kt` and see the implementation of `loadContributorsCallbacks()` that uses this API: 

1190 

```
funloadContributorsCallbacks(
    service: GitHubService, req: RequestData,
    updateResults:(List<User>)/> Unit
){
    service.getOrgReposCall(req.org).onResponse{ responseRepos />// #1
logRepos(req, responseRepos)
val repos = responseRepos.bodyList()
val allUsers = mutableListOf<User>()
for(repo in repos){
            service.getRepoContributorsCall(req.org, repo.name)
.onResponse{ responseUsers />// #2
logUsers(repo, responseUsers)
val users = responseUsers.bodyList()
                    allUsers += users
}
}
}
// TODO: Why doesn't this code work? How to fix that?
updateResults(allUsers.aggregate())
}
```

- For convenience, this code fragment uses the `onResponse()` extension function declared in the same file. It takes a lambda as an argument rather than an object expression. 

- The logic for handling the responses is extracted into callbacks: the corresponding lambdas start at lines `#1` and `#2` . 

However, the provided solution doesn't work. If you run the program and load contributors by choosing the CALLBACKS option, you'll see that nothing is shown. However, the test from `Request3CallbacksKtTest` immediately returns the result that it successfully passed. 

Think about why the given code doesn't work as expected and try to fix it, or see the solutions below. 

## **Task 3 (optional)** 

Rewrite the code in the `src/tasks/Request3Callbacks.kt` file so that the loaded list of contributors is shown. 

## **The first attempted solution for task 3** 

In the current solution, many requests are started concurrently, which decreases the total loading time. However, the result isn't loaded. This is because the `updateResults()` callback is called right after all of the loading requests are started, before the `allUsers` list has been filled with the data. 

You could try to fix this with a change like the following: 

```
val allUsers = mutableListOf<User>()
for((index, repo)in repos.withIndex()){// #1
    service.getRepoContributorsCall(req.org, repo.name)
.onResponse{ responseUsers />
logUsers(repo, responseUsers)
val users = responseUsers.bodyList()
            allUsers += users
if(index /= repos.lastIndex){// #2
updateResults(allUsers.aggregate())
}
}
}
```

1191 

- First, you iterate over the list of repos with an index ( `#1` ). 

- Then, from each callback, you check whether it's the last iteration ( `#2` ). 

- And if that's the case, the result is updated. 

However, this code also fails to achieve our objective. Try to find the answer yourself, or see the solution below. 

## **The second attempted solution for task 3** 

Since the loading requests are started concurrently, there's no guarantee that the result for the last one comes last. The results can come in any order. 

Thus, if you compare the current index with the `lastIndex` as a condition for completion, you risk losing the results for some repos. 

If the request that processes the last repo returns faster than some prior requests (which is likely to happen), all of the results for requests that take more time will be lost. 

One way to fix this is to introduce an index and check whether all of the repositories have already been processed: 

```
val allUsers = Collections.synchronizedList(mutableListOf<User>())
val numberOfProcessed =AtomicInteger()
for(repo in repos){
    service.getRepoContributorsCall(req.org, repo.name)
.onResponse{ responseUsers />
logUsers(repo, responseUsers)
val users = responseUsers.bodyList()
            allUsers += users
if(numberOfProcessed.incrementAndGet()/= repos.size){
updateResults(allUsers.aggregate())
}
}
}
```

This code uses a synchronized version of the list and `AtomicInteger()` because, in general, there's no guarantee that different callbacks that process `getRepoContributors()` requests will always be called from the same thread. 

## **The third attempted solution for task 3** 

An even better solution is to use the `CountDownLatch` class. It stores a counter initialized with the number of repositories. This counter is decremented after processing each repository. It then waits until the latch is counted down to zero before updating the results: 

```
val countDownLatch =CountDownLatch(repos.size)
for(repo in repos){
    service.getRepoContributorsCall(req.org, repo.name)
.onResponse{ responseUsers />
// processing repository
            countDownLatch.countDown()
}
}
countDownLatch.await()
updateResults(allUsers.aggregate())
```

The result is then updated from the main thread. This is more direct than delegating the logic to the child threads. 

1192 

After reviewing these three attempts at a solution, you can see that writing correct code with callbacks is nontrivial and error-prone, especially when several underlying threads and synchronization occur. 

As an additional exercise, you can implement the same logic using a reactive approach with the RxJava library. All of the necessary dependencies and solutions for using RxJava can be found in a separate `rx` branch. It is also possible to complete this tutorial and implement or check the proposed Rx versions for a proper comparison. 

## **Suspending functions** 

You can implement the same logic using suspending functions. Instead of returning `Call<List<Repo>>` , define the API call as a suspending function as follows: 

```
interface GitHubService {
@GET("orgs/{org}/repos?per_page=100")
suspendfungetOrgRepos(
@Path("org") org: String
): List<Repo>
}
```

- `getOrgRepos()` is defined as a `suspend` function. When you use a suspending function to perform a request, 

- the underlying thread isn't blocked. More details about how this works will come in later sections. 

- `getOrgRepos()` returns the result directly instead of returning a `Call` . If the result is unsuccessful, an 

- exception is thrown. 

Alternatively, Retrofit allows returning the result wrapped in `Response` . In this case, the result body is provided, and it is possible to check for errors manually. This tutorial uses the versions that return `Response` . 

In `src/contributors/GitHubService.kt` , add the following declarations to the `GitHubService` interface: 

```
interface GitHubService {
// getOrgReposCall & getRepoContributorsCall declarations
@GET("orgs/{org}/repos?per_page=100")
suspendfungetOrgRepos(
@Path("org") org: String
): Response<List<Repo>
```

```
@GET("repos/{owner}/{repo}/contributors?per_page=100")
suspendfungetRepoContributors(
@Path("owner") owner: String,
@Path("repo") repo: String
): Response<List<User>
}
```

## **Task 4** 

Your task is to change the code of the function that loads contributors to make use of two new suspending functions, `getOrgRepos()` and `getRepoContributors()` . The new `loadContributorsSuspend()` function is marked as `suspend` to use the new API. 

1193 

Suspending functions can't be called everywhere. Calling a suspending function from 

`loadContributorsBlocking()` will result in an error with the message "Suspend function 'getOrgRepos' should be called only from a coroutine or another suspend function". 

1. Copy the implementation of `loadContributorsBlocking()` that is defined in 

   - `src/tasks/Request1Blocking.kt` into the `loadContributorsSuspend()` that is defined in `src/tasks/Request4Suspend.kt` . 

2. Modify the code so that the new suspending functions are used instead of the ones that return `Call` s. 

3. Run the program by choosing the SUSPEND option and ensure that the UI is still responsive while the GitHub requests are performed. 

## **Solution for task 4** 

Replace `.getOrgReposCall(req.org).execute()` with `.getOrgRepos(req.org)` and repeat the same replacement for the second "contributors" request: 

```
suspendfunloadContributorsSuspend(service: GitHubService, req: RequestData): List<User>{
val repos = service
.getOrgRepos(req.org)
.also{logRepos(req, it)}
.bodyList()
return repos.flatMap{ repo />
        service.getRepoContributors(req.org, repo.name)
.also{logUsers(repo, it)}
.bodyList()
}.aggregate()
}
```

- 

   - `loadContributorsSuspend()` should be defined as a `suspend` function. 

- You no longer need to call `execute` , which returned the `Response` before, because now the API functions return the `Response` directly. Note that this detail is specific to the Retrofit library. With other libraries, the API will be different, but the concept is the same. 

## **Coroutines** 

The code with suspending functions looks similar to the "blocking" version. The major difference from the blocking version is that instead of blocking the thread, the coroutine is suspended: 

```
block /> suspend
thread /> coroutine
```

- Coroutines are often called lightweight threads because you can run code on coroutines, similar to how you run code on threads. The operations that were blocking before (and had to be avoided) can now suspend the coroutine instead. 

1194 

## **Starting a new coroutine** 

If you look at how `loadContributorsSuspend()` is used in `src/contributors/Contributors.kt` , you can see that it's called inside `launch` . `launch` is a library function that takes a lambda as an argument: 

```
launch {
val users =loadContributorsSuspend(req)
updateResults(users, startTime)
}
```

Here `launch` starts a new computation that is responsible for loading the data and showing the results. The computation is suspendable – when performing network requests, it is suspended and releases the underlying thread. When the network request returns the result, the computation is resumed. 

Such a suspendable computation is called a coroutine. So, in this case, `launch` starts a new coroutine responsible for loading data and showing the results. 

Coroutines run on top of threads and can be suspended. When a coroutine is suspended, the corresponding computation is paused, removed from the thread, and stored in memory. Meanwhile, the thread is free to be occupied by other tasks: 

**==> picture [524 x 262] intentionally omitted <==**

When the computation is ready to be continued, it is returned to a thread (not necessarily the same one). 

In the `loadContributorsSuspend()` example, each "contributors" request now waits for the result using the suspension mechanism. First, the new request is sent. Then, while waiting for the response, the whole "load contributors" coroutine that was started by the `launch` function is suspended. 

The coroutine resumes only after the corresponding response is received: 

1195 

**==> picture [524 x 108] intentionally omitted <==**

Suspending request 

While the response is waiting to be received, the thread is free to be occupied by other tasks. The UI stays responsive, despite all the requests taking place on the main UI thread: 

1. Run the program using the SUSPEND option. The log confirms that all of the requests are sent from the main UI thread: 

```
2538 [AWT-EventQueue-0 @coroutine#1] INFO  Contributors - kotlin: loaded 30 repos
2729 [AWT-EventQueue-0 @coroutine#1] INFO  Contributors - ts2kt: loaded 11 contributors
3029 [AWT-EventQueue-0 @coroutine#1] INFO  Contributors - kotlin-koans: loaded 45 contributors
//.
```

```
11252 [AWT-EventQueue-0 @coroutine#1] INFO  Contributors - kotlin-coroutines-workshop: loaded 1
contributors
```

2. The log can show you which coroutine the corresponding code is running on. To enable it, open **Run | Edit configurations** and add the `-Dkotlinx.coroutines.debug` VM option: 

**==> picture [376 x 268] intentionally omitted <==**

Edit run configuration 

The coroutine name will be attached to the thread name while `main()` is run with this option. You can also modify the template for running all of the Kotlin files and enable this option by default. 

Now all of the code runs on one coroutine, the "load contributors" coroutine mentioned above, denoted as `@coroutine#1` . While waiting for the result, you shouldn't reuse the thread for sending other requests because the code is written sequentially. The new request is sent only when the previous result is received. 

1196 

Suspending functions treat the thread fairly and don't block it for "waiting". However, this doesn't yet bring any concurrency into the picture. 

## **Concurrency** 

Kotlin coroutines are much less resource-intensive than threads. Each time you want to start a new computation asynchronously, you can create a new coroutine instead. 

To start a new coroutine, use one of the main coroutine builders: `launch` , `async` , or `runBlocking` . Different libraries can define additional coroutine builders. 

`async` starts a new coroutine and returns a `Deferred` object. `Deferred` represents a concept known by other names such as `Future` or `Promise` . It stores a computation, but it defers the moment you get the final result; it promises the result sometime in the future. 

The main difference between `async` and `launch` is that `launch` is used to start a computation that isn't expected to return a specific result. `launch` returns a `Job` that represents the coroutine. It is possible to wait until it completes by calling `Job.join()` . 

`Deferred` is a generic type that extends `Job` . An `async` call can return a `Deferred<Int>` or a `Deferred<CustomType>` , depending on what the lambda returns (the last expression inside the lambda is the result). 

To get the result of a coroutine, you can call `await()` on the `Deferred` instance. While waiting for the result, the coroutine that this `await()` is called from is suspended: 

```
import kotlinx.coroutines.*
funmain()= runBlocking {
val deferred: Deferred<Int>= async {
loadData()
}
println("waiting//.")
println(deferred.await())
}
suspendfunloadData(): Int {
println("loading//.")
delay(1000L)
println("loaded!")
return42
}
```

`runBlocking` is used as a bridge between regular and suspending functions, or between the blocking and nonblocking worlds. It works as an adaptor for starting the top-level main coroutine. It is intended primarily to be used in `main()` functions and tests. 

## Watch this video for a better understanding of coroutines. 

If there is a list of deferred objects, you can call `awaitAll()` to await the results of all of them: 

1197 

```
import kotlinx.coroutines.*
funmain()= runBlocking {
val deferreds: List<Deferred<Int>=(1/.3).map{
        async {
delay(1000L* it)
println("Loading $it")
            it
}
}
val sum = deferreds.awaitAll().sum()
println("$sum")
}
```

When each "contributors" request is started in a new coroutine, all of the requests are started asynchronously. A new request can be sent before the result for the previous one is received: 

**==> picture [524 x 115] intentionally omitted <==**

Concurrent coroutines 

The total loading time is approximately the same as in the CALLBACKS version, but it doesn't need any callbacks. What's more, `async` explicitly emphasizes which parts run concurrently in the code. 

## **Task 5** 

In the `Request5Concurrent.kt` file, implement a `loadContributorsConcurrent()` function by using the previous `loadContributorsSuspend()` function. 

## **Tip for task 5** 

You can only start a new coroutine inside a coroutine scope. Copy the content from `loadContributorsSuspend()` to the `coroutineScope` call so that you can call `async` functions there: 

```
suspendfunloadContributorsConcurrent(
    service: GitHubService,
    req: RequestData
): List<User>= coroutineScope {
// //.
}
```

Base your solution on the following scheme: 

```
val deferreds: List<Deferred<List<User>= repos.map{ repo />
    async {
// load contributors for each repo
}
}
deferreds.awaitAll()// List<List<User/>
```

1198 

## **Solution for task 5** 

Wrap each "contributors" request with `async` to create as many coroutines as there are repositories. `async` returns `Deferred<List<User>>` . This is not an issue because creating new coroutines is not very resourceintensive, so you can create as many as you need. 

1. You can no longer use `flatMap` because the `map` result is now a list of `Deferred` objects, not a list of lists. `awaitAll()` returns `List<List<User>>` , so call `flatten().aggregate()` to get the result: 

```
suspendfunloadContributorsConcurrent(
    service: GitHubService,
    req: RequestData
): List<User>= coroutineScope {
val repos = service
.getOrgRepos(req.org)
.also{logRepos(req, it)}
.bodyList()
val deferreds: List<Deferred<List<User>= repos.map{ repo />
        async {
            service.getRepoContributors(req.org, repo.name)
.also{logUsers(repo, it)}
.bodyList()
}
}
    deferreds.awaitAll().flatten().aggregate()
}
```

2. Run the code and check the log. All of the coroutines still run on the main UI thread because multithreading hasn't been employed yet, but you can already see the benefits of running coroutines concurrently. 

3. To change this code to run "contributors" coroutines on different threads from the common thread pool, specify `Dispatchers.Default` as the context argument for the `async` function: 

```
async(Dispatchers.Default){}
```

   - `CoroutineDispatcher` determines what thread or threads the corresponding coroutine should be run on. If 

   - you don't specify one as an argument, `async` will use the dispatcher from the outer scope. 

   - `Dispatchers.Default` represents a shared pool of threads on the JVM. This pool provides a means for 

   - parallel execution. It consists of as many threads as there are CPU cores available, but it will still have two threads if there's only one core. 

4. Modify the code in the `loadContributorsConcurrent()` function to start new coroutines on different threads from the common thread pool. Also, add additional logging before sending the request: 

```
async(Dispatchers.Default){
"
log("starting loading for ${repo.name})
    service.getRepoContributors(req.org, repo.name)
.also{logUsers(repo, it)}
.bodyList()
}
```

5. Run the program once again. In the log, you can see that each coroutine can be started on one thread from the thread pool and resumed on another: 

1199 

```
1946 [DefaultDispatcher-worker-2 @coroutine#4] INFO  Contributors - starting loading for kotlin-
koans
```

```
1946 [DefaultDispatcher-worker-3 @coroutine#5] INFO  Contributors - starting loading for dokka
1946 [DefaultDispatcher-worker-1 @coroutine#3] INFO  Contributors - starting loading for ts2kt
//.
```

```
2178 [DefaultDispatcher-worker-1 @coroutine#4] INFO  Contributors - kotlin-koans: loaded 45
contributors
2569 [DefaultDispatcher-worker-1 @coroutine#5] INFO  Contributors - dokka: loaded 36 contributors
2821 [DefaultDispatcher-worker-2 @coroutine#3] INFO  Contributors - ts2kt: loaded 11 contributors
```

For instance, in this log excerpt, `coroutine#4` is started on the `worker-2` thread and continued on the `worker-1` thread. 

In `src/contributors/Contributors.kt` , check the implementation of the CONCURRENT option: 

1. To run the coroutine only on the main UI thread, specify `Dispatchers.Main` as an argument: 

```
launch(Dispatchers.Main){
updateResults()
}
```

   - If the main thread is busy when you start a new coroutine on it, the coroutine becomes suspended and scheduled for execution on this thread. The coroutine will only resume when the thread becomes free. 

   - It's considered good practice to use the dispatcher from the outer scope rather than explicitly specifying it on each end-point. If you define `loadContributorsConcurrent()` without passing `Dispatchers.Default` as an argument, you can call this function in any context: with a `Default` dispatcher, with the main UI thread, or with a custom dispatcher. 

   - As you'll see later, when calling `loadContributorsConcurrent()` from tests, you can call it in the context with `TestDispatcher` , which simplifies testing. That makes this solution much more flexible. 

2. To specify the dispatcher on the caller side, apply the following change to the project while letting `loadContributorsConcurrent` start coroutines in the inherited context: 

```
launch(Dispatchers.Default){
val users =loadContributorsConcurrent(service, req)
withContext(Dispatchers.Main){
updateResults(users, startTime)
}
}
```

   - `updateResults()` should be called on the main UI thread, so you call it with the context of `Dispatchers.Main` . 

   - `withContext()` calls the given code with the specified coroutine context, is suspended until it completes, 

   - and returns the result. An alternative but more verbose way to express this would be to start a new coroutine and explicitly wait (by suspending) until it completes: `launch(context) { ... }.join()` . 

3. Run the code and ensure that the coroutines are executed on the threads from the thread pool. 

## **Structured concurrency** 

- The coroutine scope is responsible for the structure and parent-child relationships between different coroutines. New coroutines usually need to be started inside a scope. 

1200 

