- Deprecation of the kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy system property 

- 

## Removal of deprecated options, methods, and plugins 

## **A new approach to incremental compilation** 

The new approach to incremental compilation is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see the details below). We encourage you to use it only for evaluation purposes, and we would appreciate your feedback in YouTrack. 

In Kotlin 1.7.0, we've reworked incremental compilation for cross-module changes. Now incremental compilation is also supported for changes made inside dependent non-Kotlin modules, and it is compatible with the Gradle build cache. Support for compilation avoidance has also been improved. 

We expect you'll see the most significant benefit of the new approach if you use the build cache or frequently make changes in non-Kotlin Gradle modules. Our tests for the Kotlin project on the `kotlin-gradle-plugin` module show an improvement of greater than 80% for the changes after the cache hit. 

To try this new approach, set the following option in your `gradle.properties` : 

```
kotlin.incremental.useClasspathSnapshot=true
```

The new approach to incremental compilation is currently available for the JVM backend in the Gradle build system only. 

Learn how the new approach to incremental compilation is implemented under the hood in this blog post. 

Our plan is to stabilize this technology and add support for other backends (JS, for instance) and build systems. We'd appreciate your reports in YouTrack about any issues or strange behavior you encounter in this compilation scheme. Thank you! 

The Kotlin team is very grateful to Ivan Gavrilovic, Hung Nguyen, Cédric Champeau, and other external contributors for their help. 

## **Build reports for Kotlin compiler tasks** 

- Kotlin build reports are Experimental. They may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see details below). Use them only for evaluation purposes. We appreciate your feedback on them in YouTrack. 

Kotlin 1.7.0 introduces build reports that help track compiler performance. Reports contain the durations of different compilation phases and reasons why compilation couldn't be incremental. 

Build reports come in handy when you want to investigate issues with compiler tasks, for example: 

- When the Gradle build takes too much time and you want to understand the root cause of the poor performance. 

- When the compilation time for the same project differs, sometimes taking seconds, sometimes taking minutes. 

To enable build reports, declare where to save the build report output in `gradle.properties` : 

2001 

```
kotlin.build.report.output=file
```

The following values (and their combinations) are available: 

- 

   - `file` saves build reports in a local file. 

- 

   - `build_scan` saves build reports in the `custom values` section of the build scan. 

      - The Gradle Enterprise plugin limits the number of custom values and their length. In big projects, some values could be lost. 

- `http` posts build reports using HTTP(S). The POST method sends metrics in the JSON format. Data may 

- change from version to version. You can see the current version of the sent data in the Kotlin repository. 

There are two common cases that analyzing build reports for long-running compilations can help you resolve: 

- The build wasn't incremental. Analyze the reasons and fix underlying problems. 

- The build was incremental, but took too much time. Try to reorganize source files — split big files, save separate classes in different files, refactor large classes, declare top-level functions in different files, and so on. 

Learn more about new build reports in this blog post. 

You are welcome to try using build reports in your infrastructure. If you have any feedback, encounter any issues, or want to suggest improvements, please don't hesitate to report them in our issue tracker. Thank you! 

## **Bumping minimum supported versions** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.7.0, the minimum supported Gradle version is 6.7.1. We had to raise the version to support Gradle plugin variants and the new Gradle API. In the future, we should not have to raise the minimum supported version as often, thanks to the Gradle plugin variants feature. 

Also, the minimal supported Android Gradle plugin version is now 3.6.4. 

## **Support for Gradle plugin variants** 

Gradle 7.0 introduced a new feature for Gradle plugin authors — plugins with variants. This feature makes it easier to add support for new Gradle features while maintaining compatibility for Gradle versions below 7.1. Learn more about variant selection in Gradle. 

With Gradle plugin variants, we can ship different Kotlin Gradle plugin variants for different Gradle versions. The goal is to support the base Kotlin compilation in the `main` variant, which corresponds to the oldest supported versions of Gradle. Each variant will have implementations for Gradle features from a corresponding release. The latest variant will support the widest Gradle feature set. With this approach, we can extend support for older Gradle versions with limited functionality. 

Currently, there are only two variants of the Kotlin Gradle plugin: 

- `main` for Gradle versions 6.7.1–6.9.3 

- `gradle70` for Gradle versions 7.0 and higher 

In future Kotlin releases, we may add more. 

To check which variant your build uses, enable the `--info` log level and find a string in the output starting with `Using Kotlin Gradle plugin` , for example, `Using Kotlin Gradle plugin main variant` . 

2002 

Here are workarounds for some known issues with variant selection in Gradle: 

- ResolutionStrategy in pluginManagement is not working for plugins with multivariants 

- Plugin variants are ignored when a plugin is added as the `buildSrc` common dependency 

Leave your feedback on this YouTrack ticket. 

## **Updates in the Kotlin Gradle plugin API** 

The Kotlin Gradle plugin API artifact has received several improvements: 

- 

   - There are new interfaces for Kotlin/JVM and Kotlin/kapt tasks with user-configurable inputs. 

- There is a new `KotlinBasePlugin` interface that all Kotlin plugins inherit from. Use this interface when you want to trigger some configuration action whenever any Kotlin Gradle plugin (JVM, JS, Multiplatform, Native, and other platforms) is applied: 

```
project.plugins.withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.plugin.KotlinBasePlugin>(){
// Configure your action here
}
```

You can leave your feedback about the `KotlinBasePlugin` in this YouTrack ticket. 

- We've laid the groundwork for the Android Gradle plugin to configure Kotlin compilation within itself, meaning you won't need to add the Kotlin Android Gradle plugin to your build. Follow Android Gradle Plugin release announcements to learn about the added support and try it out! 

## **The sam-with-receiver plugin is available via the plugins API** 

The sam-with-receiver compiler plugin is now available via the Gradle plugins DSL: 

```
plugins {
```

```
id("org.jetbrains.kotlin.plugin.sam.with.receiver") version "$kotlin_version"
}
```

## **Changes in compile tasks** 

Compile tasks have received lots of changes in this release: 

- Kotlin compile tasks no longer inherit the Gradle `AbstractCompile` task. They inherit only the `DefaultTask` . 

- The `AbstractCompile` task has the `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` inputs. Since the `AbstractCompile` task is no longer inherited, these inputs are no longer available in Kotlin users' scripts. 

- The `SourceTask.stableSources` input is no longer available, and you should use the `sources` input. `setSource(...)` methods are still available. 

- All compile tasks now use the `libraries` input for a list of libraries required for compilation. The `KotlinCompile` task still has the deprecated Kotlin property `classpath` , which will be removed in future 

- releases. 

- Compile tasks still implement the `PatternFilterable` interface, which allows the filtering of Kotlin sources. The `sourceFilesExtensions` input was removed in favor of using `PatternFilterable` methods. 

2003 

- The deprecated `Gradle destinationDir: File` output was replaced with the `destinationDirectory: DirectoryProperty` output. 

- The Kotlin/Native `AbstractNativeCompile` task now inherits the `AbstractKotlinCompileTool` base class. This is an initial step toward integrating Kotlin/Native build tools into all the other tools. 

Please leave your feedback in this YouTrack ticket. 

## **Statistics of generated files by each annotation processor in kapt** 

The `kotlin-kapt` Gradle plugin already reports performance statistics for each processor. Starting with Kotlin 1.7.0, it can also report statistics on the number of generated files for each annotation processor. 

This is useful to track if there are unused annotation processors as a part of the build. You can use the generated report to find modules that trigger unnecessary annotation processors and update the modules to prevent that. 

Enable the statistics in two steps: 

- Set the `showProcessorStats` flag to `true` in your `build.gradle.kts` : 

```
kapt {
    showProcessorStats =true
}
```

- Set the `kapt.verbose` Gradle property to `true` in your `gradle.properties` : 

```
kapt.verbose=true
```

You can also enable verbose output via the command line option `verbose` . 

The statistics will appear in the logs with the `info` level. You'll see the `Annotation processor stats:` line followed by statistics on the execution time of each annotation processor. After these lines, there will be the `Generated files report:` line followed by statistics on the number of generated files for each annotation processor. For example: 

```
[INFO] Annotation processor stats:
[INFO] org.mapstruct.ap.MappingProcessor: total: 290 ms, init: 1 ms, 3 round(s): 289 ms, 0 ms, 0 ms
[INFO] Generated files report:
[INFO] org.mapstruct.ap.MappingProcessor: total sources: 2, sources per round: 2, 0, 0
```

Please leave your feedback in this YouTrack ticket. 

## **Deprecation of the kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy system property** 

Kotlin 1.6.20 introduced new properties for defining a Kotlin compiler execution strategy. In Kotlin 1.7.0, a deprecation cycle has started for the old system property `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` in favor of the new properties. 

When using the `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` system property, you'll receive a warning. This property will be deleted in future releases. To preserve the old behavior, replace the system property with the Gradle property of the same name. You can do this in `gradle.properties` , for example: 

```
kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy=out-of-process
```

2004 

You can also use the compile task property `compilerExecutionStrategy` . Learn more about this on the Compiler execution strategy page. 

## **Removal of deprecated options, methods, and plugins** 

## **Removal of the useExperimentalAnnotation method** 

In Kotlin 1.7.0, we completed the deprecation cycle for the `useExperimentalAnnotation` Gradle method. Use `optIn()` instead to opt in to using an API in a module. 

For example, if your Gradle module is multiplatform: 

```
sourceSets {
    all {
        languageSettings.optIn("org.mylibrary.OptInAnnotation")
}
}
```

Learn more about opt-in requirements in Kotlin. 

## **Removal of deprecated compiler options** 

We've completed the deprecation cycle for several compiler options: 

- The `kotlinOptions.jdkHome` compiler option was deprecated in 1.5.30 and has been removed in the current release. Gradle builds now fail if they contain this option. We encourage you to use Java toolchains, which have been supported since Kotlin 1.5.30. 

- The deprecated `noStdlib` compiler option has also been removed. The Gradle plugin uses the `kotlin.stdlib.default.dependency=true` property to control whether the Kotlin standard library is present. 

The compiler arguments `-jdkHome` and `-no-stdlib` are still available. 

## **Removal of deprecated plugins** 

In Kotlin 1.4.0, the `kotlin2js` and `kotlin-dce-plugin` plugins were deprecated, and they have been removed in this release. Instead of `kotlin2js` , use the new `org.jetbrains.kotlin.js` plugin. Dead code elimination (DCE) works when the Kotlin/JS Gradle plugin is properly configured. 

In Kotlin 1.6.0, we changed the deprecation level of the `KotlinGradleSubplugin` class to `ERROR` . Developers used this class for writing compiler plugins. In this release, this class has been removed. Use the `KotlinCompilerPluginSupportPlugin` class instead. 

The best practice is to use Kotlin plugins with versions 1.7.0 and higher throughout your project. 

## **Removal of the deprecated coroutines DSL option and property** 

We removed the deprecated `kotlin.experimental.coroutines` Gradle DSL option and the `kotlin.coroutines` property used in `gradle.properties` . Now you can just use suspending functions or add the `kotlinx.coroutines` dependency to your build script. 

Learn more about coroutines in the Coroutines guide. 

2005 

## **Removal of the type cast in the toolchain extension method** 

Before Kotlin 1.7.0, you had to do the type cast into the `JavaToolchainSpec` class when configuring the Gradle toolchain with Kotlin DSL: 

```
kotlin {
    jvmToolchain {
(thisas JavaToolchainSpec).languageVersion.set(JavaLanguageVersion.of(<MAJOR_JDK_VERSION>)
}
}
```

Now, you can omit the `(this as JavaToolchainSpec)` part: 

```
kotlin {
    jvmToolchain {
        languageVersion.set(JavaLanguageVersion.of(<MAJOR_JDK_VERSION>)
}
}
```

## **Migrating to Kotlin 1.7.0** 

## **Install Kotlin 1.7.0** 

IntelliJ IDEA 2022.1 and Android Studio Chipmunk (212) automatically suggest updating the Kotlin plugin to 1.7.0. 

For IntelliJ IDEA 2022.2, and Android Studio Dolphin (213) or Android Studio Electric Eel (221), the Kotlin plugin 1.7.0 will be delivered with upcoming IntelliJ IDEA and Android Studios updates. 

The new command-line compiler is available for download on the GitHub release page. 

## **Migrate existing or start a new project with Kotlin 1.7.0** 

- To migrate existing projects to Kotlin 1.7.0, change the Kotlin version to `1.7.0` and reimport your Gradle or Maven project. Learn how to update to Kotlin 1.7.0. 

- To start a new project with Kotlin 1.7.0, update the Kotlin plugin and run the Project Wizard from **File** | **New** | **Project** . 

## **Compatibility guide for Kotlin 1.7.0** 

Kotlin 1.7.0 is a feature release and can, therefore, bring changes that are incompatible with your code written for earlier versions of the language. Find the detailed list of such changes in the Compatibility guide for Kotlin 1.7.0. 

## **Compatibility guide for Kotlin 1.7.20** 

Keeping the Language Modern and Comfortable Updates are among the fundamental principles in Kotlin Language Design. The former says that constructs which obstruct language evolution should be removed, and the latter says that this removal should be well-communicated beforehand to make code migration as smooth as possible. 

2006 

Usually incompatible changes happen only in feature releases, but this time we have to introduce two such changes in an incremental release to limit spread of the problems introduced by changes in Kotlin 1.7. 

This document summarizes them, providing a reference for migration from Kotlin 1.7.0 and 1.7.10 to Kotlin 1.7.20. 

## **Basic terms** 

In this document we introduce several kinds of compatibility: 

- source: source-incompatible change stops code that used to compile fine (without errors or warnings) from compiling anymore 

- binary: two binary artifacts are said to be binary-compatible if interchanging them doesn't lead to loading or linkage errors 

- behavioral: a change is said to be behavioral-incompatible if the same program demonstrates different behavior before and after applying the change 

Remember that those definitions are given only for pure Kotlin. Compatibility of Kotlin code from the other languages perspective (for example, from Java) is out of the scope of this document. 

## **Language** 

## **Rollback attempt to fix proper constraints processing** 

**Issue** : KT-53813 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Rollback an attempt of fixing issues in type inference constraints processing appeared in - 1.7.0 after implementing the change described in KT 52668. The attempt was made in 1.7.10, but it in turn introduced new problems. 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.7.20: Rollback to 1.7.0 behavior 

2007 

**Forbid some builder inference cases to avoid problematic interaction with multiple lambdas and resolution** 

**Issue** : KT-53797 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.7 introduced a feature called unrestricted builder inference, so that even the lambdas passed to parameters not annotated with `@BuilderInference` could benefit from the builder inference. However, that could cause several problems if more than one such lambda occurred in a function invocation. 

Kotlin 1.7.20 will report an error if more than one lambda function having the corresponding parameter not annotated with `@BuilderInference` requires using builder inference to complete inferring the types in the lambda. 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 1.7.20: report an error on such lambda functions, 

- `-XXLanguage:+NoBuilderInferenceWithoutAnnotationRestriction` can be used to temporarily 

- revert to the pre-1.7.20 behavior 

## **Compatibility guide for Kotlin 1.7.0** 

Keeping the Language Modern and Comfortable Updates are among the fundamental principles in Kotlin Language Design. The former says that constructs which obstruct language evolution should be removed, and the latter says that this removal should be well-communicated beforehand to make code migration as smooth as possible. 

While most of the language changes were already announced through other channels, like update changelogs or compiler warnings, this document summarizes them all, providing a complete reference for migration from Kotlin 1.6 to Kotlin 1.7. 

## **Basic terms** 

In this document we introduce several kinds of compatibility: 

- source: source-incompatible change stops code that used to compile fine (without errors or warnings) from compiling anymore 

- binary: two binary artifacts are said to be binary-compatible if interchanging them doesn't lead to loading or linkage errors 

- behavioral: a change is said to be behavioral-incompatible if the same program demonstrates different behavior before and after applying the change 

Remember that those definitions are given only for pure Kotlin. Compatibility of Kotlin code from the other languages perspective (for example, from Java) is out of the scope of this document. 

2008 

## **Language** 

## **Make safe call result always nullable** 

## **Issue** : KT-46860 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.7 will consider the type of safe call result always nullable, even when the receiver of the safe call is non-nullable 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - <1.3: report a warning on an unnecessary safe call on non-nullable receivers 

- 1.6.20: warn additionally that the result of an unnecessary safe call will change its type in the next version 

- 

- 1.7.0: change the type of safe call result to nullable, 

- `-XXLanguage:-SafeCallsAreAlwaysNullable` can be used to temporarily revert to the pre-1.7 

- behavior 

## **Prohibit the delegation of super calls to an abstract superclass member** 

## **Issues** : KT-45508, KT-49017, KT-38078 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin will report a compile error when an explicit or implicit super call is delegated to an abstract member of the superclass, even if there's a default implementation in a super interface 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.5.20: introduce a warning when non-abstract classes that do not override all abstract members are used 

- 

   - 1.7.0: report an error if a super call, in fact, accesses an abstract member from a superclass 

- 1.7.0: report an error if the `-Xjvm-default=all` or `-Xjvm-default=all-compatibility` compatibility modes are enabled; report an error in the progressive mode 

- 

- >=1.8.0: report an error in all cases 

2009 

**Prohibit exposing non-public types through public properties declared in a non-public primary constructor** 

**Issue** : KT-28078 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin will prevent declaring public properties having non-public types in a private primary constructor. Accessing such properties from another package could lead to an `IllegalAccessError` 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.3.20: report a warning on a public property that has a non-public type and is declared in a non-public constructor 

- 

- 

- 1.6.20: raise this warning to an error in the progressive mode 

- 1.7.0: raise this warning to an error 

## **Prohibit access to uninitialized enum entries qualified with the enum name** 

**Issue** : KT-41124 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.7 will prohibit access to uninitialized enum entries from the enum static initializer block when these entries are qualified with the enum name 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.7.0: report an error when uninitialized enum entries are accessed from the enum static initializer block 

## **Prohibit computing constant values of complex boolean expressions in when condition branches and conditions of loops** 

**Issue** : KT-39883 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin will no longer make exhaustiveness and control flow assumptions based on constant boolean expressions other than literal `true` and `false` 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.5.30: report a warning when exhaustiveness of `when` or control flow reachability is determined based on a complex constant boolean expression in `when` branch or loop condition 

- 

- 1.7.0: raise this warning to an error 

2010 

**Make when statements with enum, sealed, and Boolean subjects exhaustive by default** 

## **Issue** : KT-47709 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.7 will report an error about the `when` statement with an enum, sealed, or Boolean subject being non-exhaustive 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.6.0: introduce a warning when the `when` statement with an enum, sealed, or Boolean subject is nonexhaustive (error in the progressive mode) 

- 

- 1.7.0: raise this warning to an error 

## **Deprecate confusing grammar in when-with-subject** 

**Issue** : KT-48385 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 deprecated several confusing grammar constructs in `when` condition expressions 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 

- 1.6.20: introduce a deprecation warning on the affected expressions 

- 1.8.0: raise this warning to an error 

- >= 1.8: repurpose some deprecated constructs for new language features 

## **Type nullability enhancement improvements** 

## **Issue** : KT-48623 

**Component** : Kotlin/JVM 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.7 will change how it loads and interprets type nullability annotations in Java code 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 1.4.30: introduce warnings for cases where more precise type nullability could lead to an error 

- 1.7.0: infer more precise nullability of Java types, `-XXLanguage:TypeEnhancementImprovementsInStrictMode` can be used to temporarily revert to the pre-1.7 behavior 

2011 

**Prevent implicit coercions between different numeric types** 

## **Issue** : KT-48645 

**Component** : Kotlin/JVM 

## **Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

**Short summary** : Kotlin will avoid converting numeric values automatically to a primitive numeric type where only a downcast to that type was needed semantically 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - < 1.5.30: the old behavior in all affected cases 

- 1.5.30: fix the downcast behavior in generated property delegate accessors, `-Xuse-old-backend` can be used to temporarily revert to the pre-1.5.30 fix behavior 

- 

- >= 1.7.20: fix the downcast behavior in other affected cases 

## **Deprecate the enable and the compatibility modes of the compiler option -Xjvm-default** 

## **Issue** : KT-46329 

**Component** : Kotlin/JVM 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6.20 warns about the usage of `enable` and `compatibility` modes of the `- Xjvm-default` compiler option 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.6.20: introduce a warning on the `enable` and `compatibility` modes of the `-Xjvm-default` compiler option 

- 

- >= 1.8.0: raise this warning to an error 

## **Prohibit calls to functions named suspend with a trailing lambda** 

**Issue** : KT-22562 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 no longer allows calling user functions named `suspend` that have the single argument of a functional type passed as a trailing lambda 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 

- 1.3.0: introduce a warning on such function calls 

- 1.6.0: raise this warning to an error 

- 1.7.0: introduce changes to the language grammar so that `suspend` before `{` is parsed as a keyword 

2012 

**Prohibit smart cast on a base class property if the base class is from another module** 

**Issue** : KT-52629 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.7 will no longer allow smart casts on properties of a superclass if that class is located in another module 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.6.0: report a warning on a smart cast on a property declared in the superclass located in another module 

   - 1.7.0: raise this warning to an error, 

- `-XXLanguage:-ProhibitSmartcastsOnPropertyFromAlienBaseClass` can be used to temporarily 

- revert to the pre-1.7 behavior 

## **Do not neglect meaningful constraints during type inference** 

**Issue** : KT-52668 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.4−1.6 neglected some type constraints during type inference due to an incorrect optimization. It could allow writing unsound code, causing `ClassCastException` at runtime. Kotlin 1.7 takes these constraints into account, thus prohibiting the unsound code 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.5.20: report a warning on expressions where a type mismatch would happen if all the type inference constraints were taken into account 

- 

- 1.7.0: take all the constraints into account, thus raising this warning to an error, 

- `-XXLanguage:-ProperTypeInferenceConstraintsProcessing` can be used to temporarily revert to 

- the pre-1.7 behavior 

2013 

## **Standard library** 

## **Gradually change the return type of collection min and max functions to non-nullable** 

**Issue** : KT-38854 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : the return type of collection `min` and `max` functions will be changed to non-nullable in Kotlin 1.7 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.4.0: introduce `...OrNull` functions as synonyms and deprecate the affected API (see details in the issue) 

- 

- 

- 

- 1.5.0: raise the deprecation level of the affected API to an error 

- 1.6.0: hide the deprecated functions from the public API 

- 1.7.0: reintroduce the affected API but with non-nullable return type 

## **Deprecate floating-point array functions: contains, indexOf, lastIndexOf** 

## **Issue** : KT-28753 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin deprecates floating-point array functions `contains` , `indexOf` , `lastIndexOf` that compare values using the IEEE-754 order instead of the total order 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 

- 1.4.0: deprecate the affected functions with a warning 

- 1.6.0: raise the deprecation level to an error 

- 1.7.0: hide the deprecated functions from the public API 

2014 

**Migrate declarations from kotlin.dom and kotlin.browser packages to kotlinx.*** 

**Issue** : KT-39330 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib (JS) 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : declarations from the `kotlin.dom` and `kotlin.browser` packages are moved to the corresponding `kotlinx.*` packages to prepare for extracting them from stdlib 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 1.4.0: introduce the replacement API in `kotlinx.dom` and `kotlinx.browser` packages 

- 1.4.0: deprecate the API in `kotlin.dom` and `kotlin.browser` packages and propose the new API above as a replacement 

- 

- 

- 

- 1.6.0: raise the deprecation level to an error 

- >= 1.8: remove the deprecated functions from stdlib 

- >= 1.8: move the API in kotlinx.* packages to a separate library 

## **Deprecate some JS-only API** 

**Issue** : KT-48587 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib (JS) 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : a number of JS-only functions in stdlib are deprecated for removal. They include: `String.concat(String)` , `String.match(regex: String)` , `String.matches(regex: String)` , and the `sort` functions on arrays taking a comparison function, for example, `Array<out T>.sort(comparison: (a: T, b: T) -> Int)` 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 

- 1.6.0: deprecate the affected functions with a warning 

- 1.8.0: raise the deprecation level to an error 

- 1.9.0: remove the deprecated functions from the public API 

2015 

## **Tools** 

## **Remove KotlinGradleSubplugin class** 

**Issue** : KT-48831 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : remove the `KotlinGradleSubplugin` class. Use the 

`KotlinCompilerPluginSupportPlugin` class instead 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.6.0: raise the deprecation level to an error 

- 1.7.0: remove the deprecated class 

## **Remove useIR compiler option** 

**Issue** : KT-48847 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : remove the deprecated and hidden `useIR` compiler option 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 

- 1.5.0: raise the deprecation level to a warning 

- 1.6.0: hide the option 

- 1.7.0: remove the deprecated option 

## **Deprecate kapt.use.worker.api Gradle property** 

**Issue** : KT-48826 

**Component** : Gradle 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : deprecate the `kapt.use.worker.api` property that allowed to run kapt via Gradle Workers API (default: true) 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.6.20: raise the deprecation level to a warning 

- >= 1.8.0: remove this property 

2016 

**Remove kotlin.experimental.coroutines Gradle DSL option and kotlin.coroutines Gradle property** 

**Issue** : KT-50494 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : remove the `kotlin.experimental.coroutines` Gradle DSL option and the `kotlin.coroutines` property 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.6.20: raise the deprecation level to a warning 

- 1.7.0: remove the DSL option, its enclosing `experimental` block, and the property 

## **Deprecate useExperimentalAnnotation compiler option** 

**Issue** : KT-47763 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : remove the hidden `useExperimentalAnnotation()` Gradle function used to opt in to using an API in a module. `optIn()` function can be used instead 

## **Deprecation cycle:** 

- 

- 

- 1.6.0: hide the deprecation option 

- 1.7.0: remove the deprecated option 

## **Deprecate kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy system property** 

**Issue** : KT-51830 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : deprecate the `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` system property used to choose a compiler execution strategy. Use the Gradle property `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` or the compile task property `compilerExecutionStrategy` instead 

## **Deprecation cycle:** 

- 

- 

- 1.7.0: raise the deprecation level to a warning 

- 1.7.0: remove the property 

2017 

## **Remove kotlinOptions.jdkHome compiler option** 

**Issue** : KT-46541 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : remove the `kotlinOptions.jdkHome` compiler option used to include a custom JDK from the specified location into the classpath instead of the default `JAVA_HOME` . Use Java toolchains instead 

## **Deprecation cycle:** 

- 

- 

- 1.5.30: raise the deprecation level to a warning 

- 1.7.0: remove the option 

## **Remove noStdlib compiler option** 

**Issue** : KT-49011 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : remove the `noStdlib` compiler option. The Gradle plugin uses the `kotlin.stdlib.default.dependency=true` property to control whether the Kotlin standard library is present 

## **Deprecation cycle:** 

- 

- 

- 1.5.0: raise the deprecation level to a warning 

- 1.7.0: remove the option 

## **Remove kotlin2js and kotlin-dce-plugin plugins** 

**Issue** : KT-48276 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : remove the `kotlin2js` and `kotlin-dce-plugin` plugins. Instead of `kotlin2js` , use the new `org.jetbrains.kotlin.js` plugin. Dead code elimination (DCE) works when the Kotlin/JS Gradle plugin is properly configured 

## **Deprecation cycle:** 

- 1.4.0: raise the deprecation level to a warning 

- 

- 1.7.0: remove the plugins 

2018 

**Changes in compile tasks** 

## **Issue** : KT-32805 

**Component** : Gradle 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin compile tasks no longer inherit the Gradle `AbstractCompile` task and that's why the `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` inputs are no longer available in Kotlin users' scripts. The `SourceTask.stableSources` input is no longer available. The `sourceFilesExtensions` input was removed. The deprecated `Gradle destinationDir: File` output was replaced with the 

`destinationDirectory: DirectoryProperty` output. The `classpath` property of the `KotlinCompile` task is deprecated 

## **Deprecation cycle:** 

- 1.7.0: inputs are not available, the output is replaced, the `classpath` property is deprecated 

## **What's new in Kotlin 1.6.20** 

## Released: 4 April 2022 

Kotlin 1.6.20 reveals previews of the future language features, makes the hierarchical structure the default for multiplatform projects, and brings evolutionary improvements to other components. 

You can also find a short overview of the changes in this video: 

## **Watch video online.** 

For information about the Kotlin release cycle, see Kotlin release process. 

## **Language** 

In Kotlin 1.6.20, you can try two new language features: 

- Prototype of context receivers for Kotlin/JVM 

- 

## - Definitely non nullable types 

## **Prototype of context receivers for Kotlin/JVM** 

The feature is a prototype available only for Kotlin/JVM. With `-Xcontext-receivers` enabled, the compiler will produce pre-release binaries that cannot be used in production code. Use context receivers only in your toy projects. We appreciate your feedback in YouTrack. 

With Kotlin 1.6.20, you are no longer limited to having one receiver. If you need more, you can make functions, properties, and classes context-dependent (or contextual) by adding context receivers to their declaration. A contextual declaration does the following: 

- It requires all declared context receivers to be present in a caller's scope as implicit receivers. 

2019 

- It brings declared context receivers into its body scope as implicit receivers. 

```
interface LoggingContext {
val log: Logger // This context provides a reference to a logger
}
context(LoggingContext)
funstartBusinessOperation(){
// You can access the log property since LoggingContext is an implicit receiver
    log.info("Operation has started")
}
funtest(loggingContext: LoggingContext){
with(loggingContext){
// You need to have LoggingContext in a scope as an implicit receiver
// to call startBusinessOperation()
startBusinessOperation()
}
}
```

To enable context receivers in your project, use the `-Xcontext-receivers` compiler option. You can find a detailed description of the feature and its syntax in the KEEP. 

Please note that the implementation is a prototype: 

- With `-Xcontext-receivers` enabled, the compiler will produce pre-release binaries that cannot be used in production code 

- 

- The IDE support for context receivers is minimal for now 

Try the feature in your toy projects and share your thoughts and experience with us in this YouTrack issue. If you run into any problems, please file a new issue. 

## **Definitely non-nullable types** 

- Definitely non-nullable types are in Beta. They are almost stable, but migration steps may be required in the future. We'll do our best to minimize any changes you have to make. 

To provide better interoperability when extending generic Java classes and interfaces, Kotlin 1.6.20 allows you to mark a generic type parameter as definitely non-nullable on the use site with the new syntax `T & Any` . The syntactic form comes from a notation of intersection types and is now limited to a type parameter with nullable upper bounds on the left side of `&` and non-nullable `Any` on the right side: 

```
fun<T>elvisLike(x: T, y: T & Any): T & Any = x /: y
funmain(){
// OK
    elvisLike<String>("","").length
// Error: 'null' cannot be a value of a non-null type
    elvisLike<String>("",null).length
// OK
    elvisLike<String?>(null,"").length
// Error: 'null' cannot be a value of a non-null type
    elvisLike<String?>(null,null).length
}
```

2020 

Set the language version to `1.7` to enable the feature: 

**Kotlin** 

`kotlin { sourceSets.all { languageSettings.apply { languageVersion =` **`"1.7"`** `} } }` **Groovy** `kotlin { sourceSets.all { languageSettings { languageVersion =` **`'1.7'`** `} } }` 

Learn more about definitely non-nullable types in the KEEP. 

## **Kotlin/JVM** 

Kotlin 1.6.20 introduces: 

- Compatibility improvements of default methods in JVM interfaces: new `@JvmDefaultWithCompatibility` annotation for interfaces and compatibility changes in the `-Xjvm-default` modes 

- Support for parallel compilation of a single module in the JVM backend 

- 

- Support for callable references to functional interface constructors 

## **New @JvmDefaultWithCompatibility annotation for interfaces** 

Kotlin 1.6.20 introduces the new annotation `@JvmDefaultWithCompatibility` : use it along with the `-Xjvmdefault=all` compiler option to create the default method in JVM interface for any non-abstract member in any Kotlin interface. 

If there are clients that use your Kotlin interfaces compiled without the `-Xjvm-default=all` option, they may be binary-incompatible with the code compiled with this option. Before Kotlin 1.6.20, to avoid this compatibility issue, the recommended approach was to use the `-Xjvm-default=all-compatibility` mode and also the `@JvmDefaultWithoutCompatibility` annotation for interfaces that didn't need this type of compatibility. 

This approach had some disadvantages: 

- You could easily forget to add the annotation when a new interface was added. 

- Usually there are more interfaces in non-public parts than in the public API, so you end up having this annotation in many places in your code. 

2021 

Now, you can use the `-Xjvm-default=all` mode and mark interfaces with the `@JvmDefaultWithCompatibility` annotation. This allows you to add this annotation to all interfaces in the public API once, and you won't need to use any annotations for new non-public code. 

Leave your feedback about this new annotation in this YouTrack ticket. 

## **Compatibility changes in the -Xjvm-default modes** 

Kotlin 1.6.20 adds the option to compile modules in the default mode (the `-Xjvm-default=disable` compiler option) against modules compiled with the `-Xjvm-default=all` or `-Xjvm-default=all-compatibility` modes. As before, compilations will also be successful if all modules have the `-Xjvm-default=all` or `-Xjvmdefault=all-compatibility` modes. You can leave your feedback in this YouTrack issue. 

Kotlin 1.6.20 deprecates the `compatibility` and `enable` modes of the compiler option `-Xjvm-default` . There are changes in other modes' descriptions regarding the compatibility, but the overall logic remains the same. You can check out the updated descriptions. 

For more information about default methods in the Java interop, see the interoperability documentation and this blog post. 

## **Support for parallel compilation of a single module in the JVM backend** 

- Support for parallel compilation of a single module in the JVM backend is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see details below), and you should use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

We are continuing our work to improve the new JVM IR backend compilation time. In Kotlin 1.6.20, we added the experimental JVM IR backend mode to compile all the files in a module in parallel. Parallel compilation can reduce the total compilation time by up to 15%. 

Enable the experimental parallel backend mode with the compiler option `-Xbackend-threads` . Use the following arguments for this option: 

- `N` is the number of threads you want to use. It should not be greater than your number of CPU cores; 

- otherwise, parallelization stops being effective because of switching context between threads 

- 

- `0` to use a separate thread for each CPU core 

Gradle can run tasks in parallel, but this type of parallelization doesn't help a lot when a project (or a major part of a project) is just one big task from Gradle's perspective. If you have a very big monolithic module, use parallel compilation to compile more quickly. If your project consists of lots of small modules and has a build parallelized by Gradle, adding another layer of parallelization may hurt performance because of context switching. 

- Parallel compilation has some constraints: 

- 

- 

- It doesn't work with kapt because kapt disables the IR backend 

- It requires more JVM heap by design. The amount of heap is proportional to the number of threads 

2022 

## **Support for callable references to functional interface constructors** 

Support for callable references to functional interface constructors is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see details below), and you should use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

Support for callable references to functional interface constructors adds a source-compatible way to migrate from an interface with a constructor function to a functional interface. 

Consider the following code: 

```
interface Printer {
funprint()
}
funPrinter(block:()/> Unit): Printer =object: Printer {overridefunprint()=block()}
```

With callable references to functional interface constructors enabled, this code can be replaced with just a functional interface declaration: 

```
funinterface Printer {
funprint()
}
```

Its constructor will be created implicitly, and any code using the `::Printer` function reference will compile. For example: 

```
documentsStorage.addPrinter(/:Printer)
```

Preserve the binary compatibility by marking the legacy function `Printer` with the `@Deprecated` annotation with `DeprecationLevel.HIDDEN` : 

```
@Deprecated(message ="Your message about the deprecation", level = DeprecationLevel.HIDDEN)
funPrinter(.){.}
```

Use the compiler option `-XXLanguage:+KotlinFunInterfaceConstructorReference` to enable this feature. 

## **Kotlin/Native** 

Kotlin/Native 1.6.20 marks continued development of its new components. We've taken another step toward consistent experience with Kotlin on other platforms: 

- An update on the new memory manager 

- 

## Concurrent implementation for the sweep phase in new memory manager 

- 

## Instantiation of annotation classes 

- Interop with Swift async/await: returning Swift's Void instead of KotlinUnit 

- 

## Better stack traces with libbacktrace 

- 

## Support for standalone Android executables 

- Performance improvements 

2023 

- Improved error handling during cinterop modules import 

- Support for Xcode 13 libraries 

## **An update on the new memory manager** 

The new Kotlin/Native memory manager is in Alpha. It may change incompatibly and require manual migration in the future. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

With Kotlin 1.6.20, you can try the Alpha version of the new Kotlin/Native memory manager. It eliminates the differences between the JVM and Native platforms to provide a consistent developer experience in multiplatform projects. For example, you'll have a much easier time creating new cross-platform mobile applications that work on both Android and iOS. 

The new Kotlin/Native memory manager lifts restrictions on object-sharing between threads. It also provides leakfree concurrent programming primitives that are safe and don't require any special management or annotations. 

The new memory manager will become the default in future versions, so we encourage you to try it now. Check out our blog post to learn more about the new memory manager and explore demo projects, or jump right to the migration instructions to try it yourself. 

Try using the new memory manager on your projects to see how it works and share feedback in our issue tracker, YouTrack. 

## **Concurrent implementation for the sweep phase in new memory manager** 

If you have already switched to our new memory manager, which was announced in Kotlin 1.6, you might notice a huge execution time improvement: our benchmarks show 35% improvement on average. Starting with 1.6.20, there is also a concurrent implementation for the sweep phase available for the new memory manager. This should also improve the performance and decrease the duration of garbage collector pauses. 

To enable the feature for the new Kotlin/Native memory manager, pass the following compiler option: 

```
-Xgc=cms
```

Feel free to share your feedback on the new memory manager performance in this YouTrack issue. 

## **Instantiation of annotation classes** 

In Kotlin 1.6.0, instantiation of annotation classes became Stable for Kotlin/JVM and Kotlin/JS. The 1.6.20 version delivers support for Kotlin/Native. 

Learn more about instantiation of annotation classes. 

## **Interop with Swift async/await: returning Void instead of KotlinUnit** 

Concurrency interoperability with Swift async/await is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. You should use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

2024 

We've continued working on the experimental interop with Swift's async/await (available since Swift 5.5). Kotlin 1.6.20 differs from previous versions in the way it works with `suspend` functions with the `Unit` return type. 

Previously, such functions were presented in Swift as `async` functions returning `KotlinUnit` . However, the proper return type for them is `Void` , similar to non-suspending functions. 

To avoid breaking the existing code, we're introducing a Gradle property that makes the compiler translate `Unit` - returning suspend functions to `async` Swift with the `Void` return type: 

```
# gradle.properties
kotlin.native.binary.unitSuspendFunctionObjCExport=proper
```

We plan to make this behavior the default in future Kotlin releases. 

## **Better stack traces with libbacktrace** 

Using libbacktrace for resolving source locations is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. You should use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

Kotlin/Native is now able to produce detailed stack traces with file locations and line numbers for better debugging of `linux*` (except `linuxMips32` and `linuxMipsel32` ) and `androidNative*` targets. 

This feature uses the libbacktrace library under the hood. Take a look at the following code to see an example of the difference: 

```
funmain()=bar()
funbar()=baz()
inlinefunbaz(){
error("")
}
```

## • **Before 1.6.20:** 

```
Uncaught Kotlin exception: kotlin.IllegalStateException:
   at 0   example.kexe        0x227190       kfun:kotlin.Throwable#<init>(kotlin.String?){} + 96
   at 1   example.kexe        0x221e4c       kfun:kotlin.Exception#<init>(kotlin.String?){} + 92
   at 2   example.kexe        0x221f4c       kfun:kotlin.RuntimeException#<init>(kotlin.String?){} +
92
   at 3   example.kexe        0x22234c       kfun:kotlin.IllegalStateException#<init>(kotlin.String?)
{} + 92
   at 4   example.kexe        0x25d708       kfun:#bar(){} + 104
   at 5   example.kexe        0x25d68c       kfun:#main(){} + 12
```

## • **1.6.20 with libbacktrace:** 

2025 

```
Uncaught Kotlin exception: kotlin.IllegalStateException:
   at 0   example.kexe        0x229550    kfun:kotlin.Throwable#<init>(kotlin.String?){} + 96
(/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/kotlin-
native/runtime/src/main/kotlin/kotlin/Throwable.kt:24:37)
   at 1   example.kexe        0x22420c    kfun:kotlin.Exception#<init>(kotlin.String?){} + 92
(/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/kotlin-
native/runtime/src/main/kotlin/kotlin/Exceptions.kt:23:44)
   at 2   example.kexe        0x22430c    kfun:kotlin.RuntimeException#<init>(kotlin.String?){} + 92
(/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/kotlin-
native/runtime/src/main/kotlin/kotlin/Exceptions.kt:34:44)
   at 3   example.kexe        0x22470c    kfun:kotlin.IllegalStateException#<init>(kotlin.String?){} +
92 (/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/kotlin-
native/runtime/src/main/kotlin/kotlin/Exceptions.kt:70:44)
   at 4   example.kexe        0x25fac8    kfun:#bar(){} + 104 [inlined]
(/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/libraries/stdlib/src/kotlin/util/Preconditions.kt:143:56)
   at 5   example.kexe        0x25fac8    kfun:#bar(){} + 104 [inlined]
(/private/tmp/backtrace/src/commonMain/kotlin/app.kt:4:5)
   at 6   example.kexe        0x25fac8    kfun:#bar(){} + 104
(/private/tmp/backtrace/src/commonMain/kotlin/app.kt:2:13)
   at 7   example.kexe        0x25fa4c    kfun:#main(){} + 12
(/private/tmp/backtrace/src/commonMain/kotlin/app.kt:1:14)
```

On Apple targets, which already had file locations and line numbers in stack traces, libbacktrace provides more details for inline function calls: 

## • **Before 1.6.20:** 

```
Uncaught Kotlin exception: kotlin.IllegalStateException:
   at 0   example.kexe    0x10a85a8f8    kfun:kotlin.Throwable#<init>(kotlin.String?){} + 88
(/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/kotlin-
native/runtime/src/main/kotlin/kotlin/Throwable.kt:24:37)
   at 1   example.kexe    0x10a855846    kfun:kotlin.Exception#<init>(kotlin.String?){} + 86
(/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/kotlin-
native/runtime/src/main/kotlin/kotlin/Exceptions.kt:23:44)
   at 2   example.kexe    0x10a855936    kfun:kotlin.RuntimeException#<init>(kotlin.String?){} + 86
(/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/kotlin-
native/runtime/src/main/kotlin/kotlin/Exceptions.kt:34:44)
   at 3   example.kexe    0x10a855c86    kfun:kotlin.IllegalStateException#<init>(kotlin.String?){} +
86 (/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/kotlin-
native/runtime/src/main/kotlin/kotlin/Exceptions.kt:70:44)
   at 4   example.kexe    0x10a8489a5    kfun:#bar(){} + 117
(/private/tmp/backtrace/src/commonMain/kotlin/app.kt:2:1)
   at 5   example.kexe    0x10a84891c    kfun:#main(){} + 12
(/private/tmp/backtrace/src/commonMain/kotlin/app.kt:1:14)
//.
```

## • **1.6.20 with libbacktrace:** 

2026 

```
Uncaught Kotlin exception: kotlin.IllegalStateException:
   at 0   example.kexe    0x10669bc88    kfun:kotlin.Throwable#<init>(kotlin.String?){} + 88
(/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/kotlin-
native/runtime/src/main/kotlin/kotlin/Throwable.kt:24:37)
   at 1   example.kexe    0x106696bd6    kfun:kotlin.Exception#<init>(kotlin.String?){} + 86
(/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/kotlin-
native/runtime/src/main/kotlin/kotlin/Exceptions.kt:23:44)
   at 2   example.kexe    0x106696cc6    kfun:kotlin.RuntimeException#<init>(kotlin.String?){} + 86
(/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/kotlin-
native/runtime/src/main/kotlin/kotlin/Exceptions.kt:34:44)
   at 3   example.kexe    0x106697016    kfun:kotlin.IllegalStateException#<init>(kotlin.String?){} +
86 (/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/kotlin-
native/runtime/src/main/kotlin/kotlin/Exceptions.kt:70:44)
   at 4   example.kexe    0x106689d35    kfun:#bar(){} + 117 [inlined]
(/opt/buildAgent/work/c3a91df21e46e2c8/kotlin/libraries/stdlib/src/kotlin/util/Preconditions.kt:143:56)
/>  at 5   example.kexe    0x106689d35    kfun:#bar(){} + 117 [inlined]
(/private/tmp/backtrace/src/commonMain/kotlin/app.kt:4:5)
   at 6   example.kexe    0x106689d35    kfun:#bar(){} + 117
(/private/tmp/backtrace/src/commonMain/kotlin/app.kt:2:13)
   at 7   example.kexe    0x106689cac    kfun:#main(){} + 12
(/private/tmp/backtrace/src/commonMain/kotlin/app.kt:1:14)
//.
```

To produce better stack traces with libbacktrace, add the following line to `gradle.properties` : 

```
# gradle.properties
kotlin.native.binary.sourceInfoType=libbacktrace
```

Please tell us how debugging Kotlin/Native with libbacktrace works for you in this YouTrack issue. 

## **Support for standalone Android executables** 

Previously, Android Native executables in Kotlin/Native were not actually executables but shared libraries that you could use as a NativeActivity. Now there's an option to generate standard executables for Android Native targets. 

For that, in the `build.gradle(.kts)` part of your project, configure the executable block of your `androidNative` target. Add the following binary option: 

```
kotlin {
androidNativeX64("android"){
        binaries {
            executable {
                binaryOptions["androidProgramType"]="standalone"
}
}
}
}
```

Note that this feature will become the default in Kotlin 1.7.0. If you want to preserve the current behavior, use the following setting: 

```
binaryOptions["androidProgramType"]="nativeActivity"
```

Thanks to Mattia Iavarone for the implementation! 

2027 

## **Performance improvements** 

We are working hard on Kotlin/Native to speed up the compilation process and improve your developing experience. 

Kotlin 1.6.20 brings some performance updates and bug fixes that affect the LLVM IR that Kotlin generates. 

According to the benchmarks on our internal projects, we achieved the following performance boosts on average: 

- 15% reduction in execution time 

- 20% reduction in the code size of both release and debug binaries 

- 26% reduction in the compilation time of release binaries 

These changes also provide a 10% reduction in compilation time for a debug binary on a large internal project. 

To achieve this, we've implemented static initialization for some of the compiler-generated synthetic objects, improved the way we structure LLVM IR for every function, and optimized the compiler caches. 

## **Improved error handling during cinterop modules import** 

This release introduces improved error handling for cases where you import an Objective-C module using the `cinterop` tool (as is typical for CocoaPods pods). Previously, if you got an error while trying to work with an Objective-C module (for instance, when dealing with a compilation error in a header), you received an uninformative error message, such as `fatal error: could not build module $name` . We expanded upon this part of the `cinterop` tool, so you'll get an error message with an extended description. 

## **Support for Xcode 13 libraries** 

Libraries delivered with Xcode 13 have full support as of this release. Feel free to access them from anywhere in your Kotlin code. 

## **Kotlin Multiplatform** 

## 1.6.20 brings the following notable updates to Kotlin Multiplatform: 

- Hierarchical structure support is now default for all new multiplatform projects 

- 

Kotlin CocoaPods Gradle plugin received several useful features for CocoaPods integration 

## **Hierarchical structure support for multiplatform projects** 

Kotlin 1.6.20 comes with hierarchical structure support enabled by default. Since introducing it in Kotlin 1.4.0, we've significantly improved the frontend and made IDE import stable. 

Previously, there were two ways to add code in a multiplatform project. The first was to insert it in a platformspecific source set, which is limited to one target and can't be reused by other platforms. The second is to use a common source set shared across all the platforms that are currently supported by Kotlin. 

Now you can share source code among several similar native targets that reuse a lot of the common logic and third-party APIs. The technology will provide the correct default dependencies and find the exact API available in the shared code. This eliminates a complex build setup and having to use workarounds to get IDE support for sharing source sets among native targets. It also helps prevent unsafe API usages meant for a different target. 

The technology will come in handy for library authors, too, as a hierarchical project structure allows them to publish and consume libraries with common APIs for a subset of targets. 

2028 

By default, libraries published with the hierarchical project structure are compatible only with hierarchical structure projects. 

## **Better code-sharing in your project** 

Without hierarchical structure support, there is no straightforward way to share code across some but not all Kotlin targets. One popular example is sharing code across all iOS targets and having access to iOS-specific dependencies, like Foundation. 

Thanks to the hierarchical project structure support, you can now achieve this out of the box. In the new structure, source sets form a hierarchy. You can use platform-specific language features and dependencies available for each target that a given source set compiles to. 

For example, consider a typical multiplatform project with two targets — `iosArm64` and `iosX64` for iOS devices and simulators. The Kotlin tooling understands that both targets have the same function and allows you to access that function from the intermediate source set, `iosMain` . 

**==> picture [524 x 235] intentionally omitted <==**

iOS hierarchy example 

The Kotlin toolchain provides the correct default dependencies, like Kotlin/Native stdlib or native libraries. Moreover, Kotlin tooling will try its best to find exactly the API surface area available in the shared code. This prevents such cases as, for example, the use of a macOS-specific function in code shared for Windows. 

## **More opportunities for library authors** 

When a multiplatform library is published, the API of its intermediate source sets is now properly published alongside it, making it available for consumers. Again, the Kotlin toolchain will automatically figure out the API available in the consumer source set while carefully watching out for unsafe usages, like using an API meant for the JVM in JS code. Learn more about sharing code in libraries. 

## **Configuration and setup** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.6.20, all your new multiplatform projects will have a hierarchical project structure. No additional setup is required. 

- If you've already turned it on manually, you can remove the deprecated options from `gradle.properties` : 

2029 

```
# gradle.properties
kotlin.mpp.enableGranularSourceSetsMetadata=true
kotlin.native.enableDependencyPropagation=false // or 'true', depending on your previous setup
```

- For Kotlin 1.6.20, we recommend using Android Studio 2021.1.1 (Bumblebee) or later to get the best experience. 

- You can also opt out. To disable hierarchical structure support, set the following options in `gradle.properties` : 

```
# gradle.properties
kotlin.mpp.hierarchicalStructureSupport=false
```

## **Leave your feedback** 

This is a significant change to the whole ecosystem. We would appreciate your feedback to help make it even better. 

Try it now and report any difficulties you encounter to our issue tracker. 

## **Kotlin CocoaPods Gradle plugin** 

To simplify CocoaPods integration, Kotlin 1.6.20 delivers the following features: 

- The CocoaPods plugin now has tasks that build XCFrameworks with all registered targets and generate the Podspec file. This can be useful when you don't want to integrate with Xcode directly, but you want to build artifacts and deploy them to your local CocoaPods repository. 

Learn more about building XCFrameworks. 

- If you use CocoaPods integration in your projects, you're used to specifying the required Pod version for the entire Gradle project. Now you have more options: 

   - 

   - Specify the Pod version directly in the `cocoapods` block 

- 

- Continue using a Gradle project version 

If none of these properties is configured, you'll get an error. 

- You can now configure the CocoaPod name in the `cocoapods` block instead of changing the name of the whole Gradle project. 

- The CocoaPods plugin introduces a new `extraSpecAttributes` property, which you can use to configure properties in a Podspec file that were previously hard-coded, like `libraries` or `vendored_frameworks` . 

```
kotlin {
    cocoapods {
        version ="1.0"
        name ="MyCocoaPod"
        extraSpecAttributes["social_media_url"]='https://twitter.com/kotlin'
        extraSpecAttributes["vendored_frameworks"]='CustomFramework.xcframework'
        extraSpecAttributes["libraries"]='xml'
}
}
```

See the full Kotlin CocoaPods Gradle plugin DSL reference. 

2030 

## **Kotlin/JS** 

Kotlin/JS improvements in 1.6.20 mainly affect the IR compiler: 

- Incremental compilation for development binaries (IR) 

- Lazy initialization of top-level properties by default (IR) 

- Separate JS files for project modules by default (IR) 

- Char class optimization (IR) 

- Export improvements (both IR and legacy backends) 

- 

- @AfterTest guarantees for asynchronous tests 

## **Incremental compilation for development binaries with IR compiler** 

To make Kotlin/JS development with the IR compiler more efficient, we're introducing a new incremental compilation mode. 

When building **development binaries** with the `compileDevelopmentExecutableKotlinJs` Gradle task in this mode, the compiler caches the results of previous compilations on the module level. It uses the cached compilation results for unchanged source files during subsequent compilations, making them complete more quickly, especially with small changes. Note that this improvement exclusively targets the development process (shortening the edit-build-debug cycle) and doesn't affect the building of production artifacts. 

To enable incremental compilation for development binaries, add the following line to the project's `gradle.properties` : 

```
# gradle.properties
kotlin.incremental.js.ir=true // false by default
```

In our test projects, the new mode made incremental compilation up to 30% faster. However, the clean build in this mode became slower because of the need to create and populate the caches. 

Please tell us what you think of using incremental compilation with your Kotlin/JS projects in this YouTrack issue. 

## **Lazy initialization of top-level properties by default with IR compiler** 

- In Kotlin 1.4.30, we presented a prototype of lazy initialization of top level properties in the JS IR compiler. By eliminating the need to initialize all properties when the application launches, lazy initialization reduces the startup time. Our measurements showed about a 10% speed-up on a real-life Kotlin/JS application. 

Now, having polished and properly tested this mechanism, we're making lazy initialization the default for top-level properties in the IR compiler. 

```
// lazy initialization
val a = run {
val result =// intensive computations
println(result)
    result
}// run is executed upon the first usage of the variable
```

If for some reason you need to initialize a property eagerly (upon the application start), mark it with the `@EagerInitialization` annotation. 

2031 

## **Separate JS files for project modules by default with IR compiler** 

Previously, the JS IR compiler offered an ability to generate separate `.js` files for project modules. This was an alternative to the default option – a single `.js` file for the whole project. This file might be too large and inconvenient to use, because whenever you want to use a function from your project, you have to include the entire JS file as a dependency. Having multiple files adds flexibility and decreases the size of such dependencies. This feature was available with the `-Xir-per-module` compiler option. 

Starting from 1.6.20, the JS IR compiler generates separate `.js` files for project modules by default. 

Compiling the project into a single `.js` file is now available with the following Gradle property: 

## `# gradle.properties` 

```
kotlin.js.ir.output.granularity=whole-program // `per-module` is the default
```

In previous releases, the experimental per-module mode (available via the `-Xir-per-module=true` flag) invoked `main()` functions in each module. This is inconsistent with the regular single `.js` mode. Starting with 1.6.20, the `main()` function will be invoked in the main module only in both cases. If you do need to run some code when a module is loaded, you can use top-level properties annotated with the `@EagerInitialization` annotation. See - Lazy initialization of top level properties by default (IR). 

## **Char class optimization** 

The `Char` class is now handled by the Kotlin/JS compiler without introducing boxing (similar to inline classes). This speeds up operations on chars in Kotlin/JS code. 

Aside from the performance improvement, this changes the way `Char` is exported to JavaScript: it's now translated to `Number` . 

## **Improvements to export and TypeScript declaration generation** 

Kotlin 1.6.20 is bringing multiple fixes and improvements to the export mechanism (the `@JsExport` annotation), including the generation of TypeScript declarations ( `.d.ts` ) We've added the ability to export interfaces and enums, and we've fixed the export behavior in some corner cases that were reported to us previously. For more details, see the list of export improvements in YouTrack. 

Learn more about using Kotlin code from JavaScript. 

## **@AfterTest guarantees for asynchronous tests** 

Kotlin 1.6.20 makes `@AfterTest` functions work properly with asynchronous tests on Kotlin/JS. If a test function's return type is statically resolved to `Promise` , the compiler now schedules the execution of the `@AfterTest` function to the corresponding `then()` callback. 

## **Security** 

Kotlin 1.6.20 introduces a couple of features to improve the security of your code: 

- Using relative paths in klibs 

- 

   - Persisting yarn.lock for Kotlin/JS Gradle projects 

- 

## `-- -` Installation of npm dependencies with `ignore scripts` by default 

2032 

## **Using relative paths in klibs** 

A library in `klib` format contains a serialized IR representation of source files, which also includes their paths for generating proper debug information. Before Kotlin 1.6.20, stored file paths were absolute. Since the library author may not want to share absolute paths, the 1.6.20 version comes with an alternative option. 

If you are publishing a `klib` and want to use only relative paths of source files in the artifact, you can now pass the `-Xklib-relative-path-base` compiler option with one or multiple base paths of source files: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
tasks.withType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinCompile/:class).configureEach{
// $base is a base path of source files
```

```
    kotlinOptions.freeCompilerArgs +="-Xklib-relative-path-base=$base"
```

```
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
tasks.withType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinCompile).configureEach {
    kotlinOptions {
```

```
// $base is a base path of source files
```

```
        freeCompilerArgs +="-Xklib-relative-path-base=$base"
}
```

```
}
```

## **Persisting yarn.lock for Kotlin/JS Gradle projects** 

The feature was backported to Kotlin 1.6.10. 

The Kotlin/JS Gradle plugin now provides an ability to persist the `yarn.lock` file, making it possible to lock the versions of the npm dependencies for your project without additional Gradle configuration. The feature brings changes to the default project structure by adding the auto-generated `kotlin-js-store` directory to the project root. It holds the `yarn.lock` file inside. 

We strongly recommend committing the `kotlin-js-store` directory and its contents to your version control system. Committing lockfiles to your version control system is a recommended practice because it ensures your application is being built with the exact same dependency tree on all machines, regardless of whether those are development environments on other machines or CI/CD services. Lockfiles also prevent your npm dependencies from being silently updated when a project is checked out on a new machine, which is a security concern. 

Tools like Dependabot can also parse the `yarn.lock` files of your Kotlin/JS projects, and provide you with warnings if any npm package you depend on is compromised. 

If needed, you can change both directory and lockfile names in the build script: 

2033 

## **Kotlin** 

```
rootProject.plugins.withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnPlugin>{
    rootProject.the<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnRootExtension>().lockFileDirectory
=
```

```
        project.rootDir.resolve("my-kotlin-js-store")
    rootProject.the<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnRootExtension>().lockFileName =
"my-yarn.lock"
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
rootProject.plugins.withType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnPlugin){
```

```
rootProject.extensions.getByType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnRootExtension).lockFile
=
```

```
file("my-kotlin-js-store")
```

```
rootProject.extensions.getByType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnRootExtension).lockFile
='my-yarn.lock'
}
```

Changing the name of the lockfile may cause dependency inspection tools to no longer pick up the file. 

## **Installation of npm dependencies with --ignore-scripts by default** 

The feature was backported to Kotlin 1.6.10. 

The Kotlin/JS Gradle plugin now prevents the execution of lifecycle scripts during the installation of npm dependencies by default. The change is aimed at reducing the likelihood of executing malicious code from compromised npm packages. 

To roll back to the old configuration, you can explicitly enable lifecycle scripts execution by adding the following lines to `build.gradle(.kts)` : 

## **Kotlin** 

```
rootProject.plugins.withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnPlugin>{
    rootProject.the<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnRootExtension>().ignoreScripts =
false
```

```
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
rootProject.plugins.withType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnPlugin){
```

```
rootProject.extensions.getByType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnRootExtension).ignoreSc
=false
```

```
}
```

2034 

Learn more about npm dependencies of a Kotlin/JS Gradle project. 

## **Gradle** 

Kotlin 1.6.20 brings the following changes for the Kotlin Gradle Plugin: 

- New properties `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` and `compilerExecutionStrategy` for defining a Kotlin compiler execution strategy 

- Deprecation of the options `kapt.use.worker.api` , `kotlin.experimental.coroutines` , and `kotlin.coroutines` 

- Removal of the `kotlin.parallel.tasks.in.project` build option 

## **Properties for defining Kotlin compiler execution strategy** 

Before Kotlin 1.6.20, you used the system property `-Dkotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` to define a Kotlin compiler execution strategy. This property might have been inconvenient in some cases. Kotlin 1.6.20 introduces a Gradle property with the same name, `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` , and the compile task property `compilerExecutionStrategy` . 

The system property still works, but it will be removed in future releases. 

The current priority of properties is the following: 

- The task property `compilerExecutionStrategy` takes priority over the system property and the Gradle property `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` . 

- The Gradle property takes priority over the system property. 

There are three compiler execution strategies that you can assign to these properties: 

|Strategy|Where Kotlin compiler is||Incremental|Other characteristics|
|---|---|---|---|---|
||executed||compilation||
|Daemon|Inside its own daemon|Yes||The default strategy. Can be shared between|
||process|||different Gradle daemons|
|In process|Inside the Gradle|No||May share the heap with the Gradle daemon|
||daemon process||||
|Out of|In a separate process for|No||—|
|process|each call||||



Accordingly, the available values for `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` properties (both system and Gradle's) are: 

1. `daemon` (default) 

2. `in-process` 

3. `out-of-process` 

Use the Gradle property `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` in `gradle.properties` : 

2035 

```
# gradle.properties
kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy=out-of-process
```

The available values for the `compilerExecutionStrategy` task property are: 

1. `org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilerExecutionStrategy.DAEMON` (default) 

2. `org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilerExecutionStrategy.IN_PROCESS` 

3. `org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilerExecutionStrategy.OUT_OF_PROCESS` 

Use the task property `compilerExecutionStrategy` in the `build.gradle.kts` build script: 

```
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinCompile
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilerExecutionStrategy
```

```
// //.
```

```
tasks.withType<KotlinCompile>().configureEach{
    compilerExecutionStrategy.set(KotlinCompilerExecutionStrategy.IN_PROCESS)
}
```

Please leave your feedback in this YouTrack task. 

## **Deprecation of build options for kapt and coroutines** 

In Kotlin 1.6.20, we changed deprecation levels of the properties: 

- We deprecated the ability to run kapt via the Kotlin daemon with `kapt.use.worker.api` – now it produces a warning to Gradle's output. By default, kapt has been using Gradle workers since the 1.3.70 release, and we recommend sticking to this method. 

We are going to remove the option `kapt.use.worker.api` in future releases. 

- We deprecated the `kotlin.experimental.coroutines` Gradle DSL option and the `kotlin.coroutines` property used in `gradle.properties` . Just use suspending functions or add the `kotlinx.coroutines` dependency to your `build.gradle(.kts)` file. 

Learn more about coroutines in the Coroutines guide. 

## **Removal of the kotlin.parallel.tasks.in.project build option** 

In Kotlin 1.5.20, we announced the deprecation of the build option `kotlin.parallel.tasks.in.project` . This option has been removed in Kotlin 1.6.20. 

Depending on the project, parallel compilation in the Kotlin daemon may require more memory. To reduce memory consumption, increase the heap size for the Kotlin daemon. 

Learn more about the currently supported compiler options in the Kotlin Gradle plugin. 

## **What's new in Kotlin 1.6.0** 

## Released: 16 November 2021 

Kotlin 1.6.0 introduces new language features, optimizations and improvements to existing features, and a lot of improvements to the Kotlin standard library. 

2036 

You can also find an overview of the changes in the release blog post. 

## For information about the Kotlin release cycle, see Kotlin release process. 

## **Language** 

Kotlin 1.6.0 brings stabilization to several language features introduced for preview in the previous 1.5.30 release: 

- Stable exhaustive when statements for enum, sealed and Boolean subjects 

- Stable suspending functions as supertypes 

- Stable suspend conversions 

- 

## Stable instantiation of annotation classes 

It also includes various type inference improvements and support for annotations on class type parameters: 

- Improved type inference for recursive generic types 

- 

## Changes to builder inference 

- 

## Support for annotations on class type parameters 

## **Stable exhaustive when statements for enum, sealed, and Boolean subjects** 

An exhaustive `when` statement contains branches for all possible types or values of its subject, or for some types plus an `else` branch. It covers all possible cases, making your code safer. 

We will soon prohibit non-exhaustive `when` statements to make the behavior consistent with `when` expressions. To ensure smooth migration, Kotlin 1.6.0 reports warnings about non-exhaustive `when` statements with an enum, sealed, or Boolean subject. These warnings will become errors in future releases. 

```
sealedclass Contact {
dataclassPhoneCall(val number: String):Contact()
dataclassTextMessage(val number: String):Contact()
}
```

```
fun Contact.messageCost(): Int =
when(this){// Error: 'when' expression must be exhaustive
is Contact.PhoneCall />42
}
```

```
funsendMessage(contact: Contact, message: String){
// Starting with 1.6.0
```

```
// Warning: Non exhaustive 'when' statements on Boolean will be
// prohibited in 1.7, add 'false' branch or 'else' branch instead
when(message.isEmpty()){
true/>return
}
// Warning: Non exhaustive 'when' statements on sealed class/interface will be
// prohibited in 1.7, add 'is TextMessage' branch or 'else' branch instead
when(contact){
is Contact.PhoneCall />TODO()
}
}
```

See this YouTrack ticket for a more detailed explanation of the change and its effects. 

2037 

## **Stable suspending functions as supertypes** 

Implementation of suspending functional types has become Stable in Kotlin 1.6.0. A preview was available in 1.5.30. 

The feature can be useful when designing APIs that use Kotlin coroutines and accept suspending functional types. You can now streamline your code by enclosing the desired behavior in a separate class that implements a suspending functional type. 

```
class MyClickAction :suspend()/> Unit {
overridesuspendfuninvoke(){TODO()}
}
funlaunchOnClick(action:suspend()/> Unit){}
```

You can use an instance of this class where only lambdas and suspending function references were allowed previously: `launchOnClick(MyClickAction())` . 

There are currently two limitations coming from implementation details: 

- You can't mix ordinary functional types and suspending ones in the list of supertypes. 

- You can't use multiple suspending functional supertypes. 

## **Stable suspend conversions** 

Kotlin 1.6.0 introduces Stable conversions from regular to suspending functional types. Starting from 1.4.0, the feature supported functional literals and callable references. With 1.6.0, it works with any form of expression. As a call argument, you can now pass any expression of a suitable regular functional type where suspending is expected. The compiler will perform an implicit conversion automatically. 

```
fungetSuspending(suspending:suspend()/> Unit){}
funsuspending(){}
funtest(regular:()/> Unit){
    getSuspending {}// OK
getSuspending(/:suspending)// OK
getSuspending(regular)// OK
}
```

## **Stable instantiation of annotation classes** 

Kotlin 1.5.30 introduced experimental support for instantiation of annotation classes on the JVM platform. With 1.6.0, the feature is available by default both for Kotlin/JVM and Kotlin/JS. 

Learn more about instantiation of annotation classes in this KEEP. 

## **Improved type inference for recursive generic types** 

Kotlin 1.5.30 introduced an improvement to type inference for recursive generic types, which allowed their type arguments to be inferred based only on the upper bounds of the corresponding type parameters. The improvement was available with the compiler option. In version 1.6.0 and later, it is enabled by default. 

2038 

```
// Before 1.5.30
```

```
val containerA = PostgreSQLContainer<Nothing>(DockerImageName.parse("postgres:13-alpine")).apply{
withDatabaseName("db")
withUsername("user")
withPassword("password")
withInitScript("sql/schema.sql")
}
```

```
// With compiler option in 1.5.30 or by default starting with 1.6.0
val containerB =PostgreSQLContainer(DockerImageName.parse("postgres:13-alpine"))
```

```
.withDatabaseName("db")
```

```
.withUsername("user")
```

```
.withPassword("password")
```

```
.withInitScript("sql/schema.sql")
```

## **Changes to builder inference** 

Builder inference is a type inference flavor which is useful when calling generic builder functions. It can infer the type arguments of a call with the help of type information from calls inside its lambda argument. 

We're making multiple changes that are bringing us closer to fully stable builder inference. Starting with 1.6.0: 

- You can make calls returning an instance of a not yet inferred type inside a builder lambda without specifying the `-Xunrestricted-builder-inference` compiler option introduced in 1.5.30. 

- With `-Xenable-builder-inference` , you can write your own builders without applying the `@BuilderInference` annotation. 

   - Note that clients of these builders will need to specify the same `-Xenable-builder-inference` compiler option. 

- With the `-Xenable-builder-inference` , builder inference automatically activates if a regular type inference cannot get enough information about a type. 

Learn how to write custom generic builders. 

## **Support for annotations on class type parameters** 

Support for annotations on class type parameters looks like this: 

```
@Target(AnnotationTarget.TYPE_PARAMETER)
annotationclass BoxContent
class Box<@BoxContent T>{}
```

Annotations on all type parameters are emitted into JVM bytecode so annotation processors are able to use them. 

For the motivating use case, read this YouTrack ticket. 

Learn more about annotations. 

## **Supporting previous API versions for a longer period** 

Starting with Kotlin 1.6.0, we will support development for three previous API versions instead of two, along with the current stable one. Currently, we support versions 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, and 1.6. 

2039 

## **Kotlin/JVM** 

For Kotlin/JVM, starting with 1.6.0, the compiler can generate classes with a bytecode version corresponding to JVM 17. The new language version also includes optimized delegated properties and repeatable annotations, which we had on the roadmap: 

- Repeatable annotations with runtime retention for 1.8 JVM target 

- Optimize delegated properties which call get/set on the given KProperty instance 

## **Repeatable annotations with runtime retention for 1.8 JVM target** 

Java 8 introduced repeatable annotations, which can be applied multiple times to a single code element. The feature requires two declarations to be present in the Java code: the repeatable annotation itself marked with `@java.lang.annotation.Repeatable` and the containing annotation to hold its values. 

Kotlin also has repeatable annotations, but requires only `@kotlin.annotation.Repeatable` to be present on an annotation declaration to make it repeatable. Before 1.6.0, the feature supported only `SOURCE` retention and was incompatible with Java's repeatable annotations. Kotlin 1.6.0 removes these limitations. 

`@kotlin.annotation.Repeatable` now accepts any retention and makes the annotation repeatable both in Kotlin and Java. Java's repeatable annotations are now also supported from the Kotlin side. 

While you can declare a containing annotation, it's not necessary. For example: 

- If an annotation `@Tag` is marked with `@kotlin.annotation.Repeatable` , the Kotlin compiler automatically generates a containing annotation class under the name of `@Tag.Container` : 

```
@Repeatable
annotationclassTag(val name: String)
// The compiler generates @Tag.Container containing annotation
```

- To set a custom name for a containing annotation, apply the `@kotlin.jvm.JvmRepeatable` meta-annotation and pass the explicitly declared containing annotation class as an argument: 

```
@JvmRepeatable(Tags/:class)
annotationclassTag(val name: String)
annotationclassTags(val value: Array<Tag>)
```

Kotlin reflection now supports both Kotlin's and Java's repeatable annotations via a new function, 

`KAnnotatedElement.findAnnotations()` . 

Learn more about Kotlin repeatable annotations in this KEEP. 

## **Optimize delegated properties which call get/set on the given KProperty instance** 

We optimized the generated JVM bytecode by omitting the `$delegate` field and generating immediate access to the referenced property. 

For example, in the following code 

2040 

```
class Box<T>{
privatevar impl: T =.
var content: T by/:impl
}
```

Kotlin no longer generates the field `content$delegate` . Property accessors of the `content` variable invoke the 

`impl` variable directly, skipping the delegated property's `getValue` / `setValue` operators and thus avoiding the need for the property reference object of the `KProperty` type. 

Thanks to our Google colleagues for the implementation! 

Learn more about delegated properties. 

## **Kotlin/Native** 

Kotlin/Native is receiving multiple improvements and component updates, some of them in the preview state: 

- Preview of the new memory manager 

- Support for Xcode 13 

- Compilation of Windows targets on any host 

- LLVM and linker updates 

- Performance improvements 

- Unified compiler plugin ABI with JVM and JS IR backends 

- Detailed error messages for klib linkage failures 

- Reworked unhandled exception handling API 

## **Preview of the new memory manager** 

The new Kotlin/Native memory manager is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Optin is required (see details below), and you should use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

With Kotlin 1.6.0, you can try the development preview of the new Kotlin/Native memory manager. It moves us closer to eliminating the differences between the JVM and Native platforms to provide a consistent developer experience in multiplatform projects. 

One of the notable changes is the lazy initialization of top-level properties, like in Kotlin/JVM. A top-level property gets initialized when a top-level property or function from the same file is accessed for the first time. This mode also includes global interprocedural optimization (enabled only for release binaries), which removes redundant initialization checks. 

We've recently published a blog post about the new memory manager. Read it to learn about the current state of the new memory manager and find some demo projects, or jump right to the migration instructions to try it yourself. Please check how the new memory manager works on your projects and share feedback in our issue tracker, YouTrack. 

2041 

## **Support for Xcode 13** 

Kotlin/Native 1.6.0 supports Xcode 13 – the latest version of Xcode. Feel free to update your Xcode and continue working on your Kotlin projects for Apple operating systems. 

New libraries added in Xcode 13 aren't available for use in Kotlin 1.6.0, but we're going to add support for them in upcoming versions. 

## **Compilation of Windows targets on any host** 

Starting from 1.6.0, you don't need a Windows host to compile the Windows targets `mingwX64` and `mingwX86` . They can be compiled on any host that supports Kotlin/Native. 

## **LLVM and linker updates** 

We've reworked the LLVM dependency that Kotlin/Native uses under the hood. This brings various benefits, including: 

- Updated LLVM version to 11.1.0. 

- Decreased dependency size. For example, on macOS it's now about 300 MB instead of 1200 MB in the previous version. 

- Excluded dependency on the `ncurses5` library that isn't available in modern Linux distributions. 

In addition to the LLVM update, Kotlin/Native now uses the LLD linker (a linker from the LLVM project) for MingGW targets. It provides various benefits over the previously used ld.bfd linker, and will allow us to improve runtime performance of produced binaries and support compiler caches for MinGW targets. Note that LLD requires import libraries for DLL linkage. Learn more in this Stack Overflow thread. 

## **Performance improvements** 

Kotlin/Native 1.6.0 delivers the following performance improvements: 

- Compilation time: compiler caches are enabled by default for `linuxX64` and `iosArm64` targets. This speeds up most compilations in debug mode (except the first one). Measurements showed about a 200% speed increase on our test projects. The compiler caches have been available for these targets since Kotlin 1.5.0 with additional Gradle properties; you can remove them now. 

- Runtime: iterating over arrays with `for` loops is now up to 12% faster thanks to optimizations in the produced LLVM code. 

## **Unified compiler plugin ABI with JVM and JS IR backends** 

- The option to use the common IR compiler plugin ABI for Kotlin/Native is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see details below), and you should use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

In previous versions, authors of compiler plugins had to provide separate artifacts for Kotlin/Native because of the differences in the ABI. 

Starting from 1.6.0, the Kotlin Multiplatform Gradle plugin is able to use the embeddable compiler jar – the one used for the JVM and JS IR backends – for Kotlin/Native. This is a step toward unification of the compiler plugin 

2042 

development experience, as you can now use the same compiler plugin artifacts for Native and other supported platforms. 

This is a preview version of such support, and it requires an opt-in. To start using generic compiler plugin artifacts for Kotlin/Native, add the following line to `gradle.properties` : 

`kotlin.native.useEmbeddableCompilerJar=true` . 

We're planning to use the embeddable compiler jar for Kotlin/Native by default in the future, so it's vital for us to hear how the preview works for you. 

If you are an author of a compiler plugin, please try this mode and check if it works for your plugin. Note that depending on your plugin's structure, migration steps may be required. See this YouTrack issue for migration instructions and leave your feedback in the comments. 

## **Detailed error messages for klib linkage failures** 

The Kotlin/Native compiler now provides detailed error messages for klib linkage errors. The messages now have clear error descriptions, and they also include information about possible causes and ways to fix them. 

For example: 

- 1.5.30: 

```
e: java.lang.IllegalStateException: IrTypeAliasSymbol expected: Unbound public symbol for public
kotlinx.coroutines/CancellationException|null[0]
<stack trace>
```

- 1.6.0: 

```
e: The symbol of unexpected type encountered during IR deserialization: IrClassPublicSymbolImpl,
kotlinx.coroutines/CancellationException|null[0].
IrTypeAliasSymbol is expected.
```

```
This could happen if there are two libraries, where one library was compiled against the different
version of the other library than the one currently used in the project.
Please check that the project configuration is correct and has consistent versions of dependencies.
```

```
The list of libraries that depend on "org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-coroutines-core
(org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-coroutines-core-macosx64)" and may lead to conflicts:
<list of libraries and potential version mismatches>
```

```
Project dependencies:
<dependencies tree>
```

## **Reworked unhandled exception handling API** 

We've unified the processing of unhandled exceptions throughout the Kotlin/Native runtime and exposed the default processing as the function `processUnhandledException(throwable: Throwable)` for use by custom execution environments, like `kotlinx.coroutines` . This processing is also applied to exceptions that escape operation in `Worker.executeAfter()` , but only for the new memory manager. 

API improvements also affected the hooks that have been set by `setUnhandledExceptionHook()` . Previously such hooks were reset after the Kotlin/Native runtime called the hook with an unhandled exception, and the program would always terminate right after. Now these hooks may be used more than once, and if you want the program to always terminate on an unhandled exception, either do not set an unhandled exception hook ( `setUnhandledExceptionHook()` ), or make sure to call `terminateWithUnhandledException()` at the end of your hook. This will help you send exceptions to a third-party crash reporting service (like Firebase Crashlytics) and 

2043 

then terminate the program. Exceptions that escape `main()` and exceptions that cross the interop boundary will always terminate the program, even if the hook did not call `terminateWithUnhandledException()` . 

## **Kotlin/JS** 

We're continuing to work on stabilizing the IR backend for the Kotlin/JS compiler. Kotlin/JS now has an option to disable downloading of Node.js and Yarn. 

## **Option to use pre-installed Node.js and Yarn** 

You can now disable downloading Node.js and Yarn when building Kotlin/JS projects and use the instances already installed on the host. This is useful for building on servers without internet connectivity, such as CI servers. 

To disable downloading external components, add the following lines to your `build.gradle(.kts)` : 

- Yarn: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
rootProject.plugins.withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnPlugin>{
    rootProject.the<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnRootExtension>().download =
false// or true for default behavior
```

```
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
rootProject.plugins.withType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnPlugin){
```

```
rootProject.extensions.getByType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.yarn.YarnRootExtension).downlo
=false
```

```
}
```

- Node.js: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
rootProject.plugins.withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.nodejs.NodeJsRootPlugin>{
    rootProject.the<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.nodejs.NodeJsRootExtension>().download =
false// or true for default behavior
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
rootProject.plugins.withType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.nodejs.NodeJsRootPlugin){
```

```
rootProject.extensions.getByType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.nodejs.NodeJsRootExtension).do
=false
```

```
}
```

2044 

## **Kotlin Gradle plugin** 

In Kotlin 1.6.0, we changed the deprecation level of the `KotlinGradleSubplugin` class to 'ERROR'. This class was used for writing compiler plugins. In the following releases, we'll remove this class. Use the class `KotlinCompilerPluginSupportPlugin` instead. 

We removed the `kotlin.useFallbackCompilerSearch` build option and the `noReflect` and `includeRuntime` compiler options. The `useIR` compiler option has been hidden and will be removed in upcoming releases. 

Learn more about the currently supported compiler options in the Kotlin Gradle plugin. 

## **Standard library** 

The new 1.6.0 version of the standard library stabilizes experimental features, introduces new ones, and unifies its behavior across the platforms: 

- New readline functions 

- Stable typeOf() 

- Stable collection builders 

- Stable Duration API 

- Splitting Regex into a sequence 

- Bit rotation operations on integers 

- Changes for replace() and replaceFirst() in JS 

- Improvements to the existing API 

- 

- Deprecations 

## **New readline functions** 

Kotlin 1.6.0 offers new functions for handling standard input: `readln()` and `readlnOrNull()` . 

For now, new functions are available for the JVM and Native target platforms only. 

|**Earlier**|**1.6.0 alternative**|**Usage**||
|---|---|---|---|
|**versions**||||
|`readLine()!`|`readln()`|Reads a line from stdin and returns it, or throws a|<br>`RuntimeException` if EOF|
|`!`||has been reached.||
|`readLine()`|`readlnOrNull(`|Reads a line from stdin and returns it, or returns|`null` if EOF has been|
||`)`|reached.||



We believe that eliminating the need to use `!!` when reading a line will improve the experience for newcomers and simplify teaching Kotlin. To make the read-line operation name consistent with its `println()` counterpart, we've decided to shorten the names of new functions to 'ln'. 

2045 

```
println("What is your nickname?")
val nickname =readln()
println("Hello, $nickname!")
```

```
funmain(){
var sum =0
while(true){
val nextLine =readlnOrNull().takeUnless{
            it.isNullOrEmpty()
}/:break
        sum += nextLine.toInt()
}
println(sum)
}
```

The existing `readLine()` function will get a lower priority than `readln()` and `readlnOrNull()` in your IDE code completion. IDE inspections will also recommend using new functions instead of the legacy `readLine()` . 

We're planning to gradually deprecate the `readLine()` function in future releases. 

## **Stable typeOf()** 

Version 1.6.0 brings a Stable `typeOf()` function, closing one of the major roadmap items. 

Since 1.3.40, `typeOf()` was available on the JVM platform as an experimental API. Now you can use it in any Kotlin platform and get `KType` representation of any Kotlin type that the compiler can infer: 

```
inlinefun<reified T>renderType(): String {
val type = typeOf<T>()
return type.toString()
}
funmain(){
val fromExplicitType = typeOf<Int>()
val fromReifiedType = renderType<List<Int>()
}
```

## **Stable collection builders** 

In Kotlin 1.6.0, collection builder functions have been promoted to Stable. Collections returned by collection builders are now serializable in their read-only state. 

You can now use `buildMap()` , `buildList()` , and `buildSet()` without the opt-in annotation: 

```
funmain(){
val x =listOf('b','c')
val y = buildList {
add('a')
addAll(x)
add('d')
}
println(y)// [a, b, c, d]
}
```

2046 

## **Stable Duration API** 

The Duration class for representing duration amounts in different time units has been promoted to Stable. In 1.6.0, the Duration API has received the following changes: 

- The first component of the `toComponents()` function that decomposes the duration into days, hours, minutes, seconds, and nanoseconds now has the `Long` type instead of `Int` . Before, if the value didn't fit into the `Int` range, it was coerced into that range. With the `Long` type, you can decompose any value in the duration range without cutting off the values that don't fit into `Int` . 

- The `DurationUnit` enum is now standalone and not a type alias of `java.util.concurrent.TimeUnit` on the JVM. We haven't found any convincing cases in which having `typealias DurationUnit = TimeUnit` could be useful. Also, exposing the `TimeUnit` API through a type alias might confuse `DurationUnit` users. 

- In response to community feedback, we're bringing back extension properties like `Int.seconds` . But we'd like to limit their applicability, so we put them into the companion of the `Duration` class. While the IDE can still propose extensions in completion and automatically insert an import from the companion, in the future we plan to limit this behavior to cases when the `Duration` type is expected. 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.seconds
funmain(){
val duration =10000
println("There are ${duration.seconds.inWholeMinutes} minutes in $duration seconds")
// There are 166 minutes in 10000 seconds
}
```

We suggest replacing previously introduced companion functions, such as `Duration.seconds(Int)` , and deprecated top-level extensions like `Int.seconds` with new extensions in `Duration.Companion` . 

- Such a replacement may cause ambiguity between old top-level extensions and new companion extensions. Be sure to use the wildcard import of the kotlin.time package – `import kotlin.time.*` – before doing automated migration. 

## **Splitting Regex into a sequence** 

The `Regex.splitToSequence(CharSequence)` and `CharSequence.splitToSequence(Regex)` functions are promoted to Stable. They split the string around matches of the given regex, but return the result as a Sequence so that all operations on this result are executed lazily: 

```
funmain(){
val colorsText ="green, red, brown&blue, orange, pink&green"
val regex ="[,\\s]+".toRegex()
val mixedColor = regex.splitToSequence(colorsText)
// or
// val mixedColor = colorsText.splitToSequence(regex)
.onEach{println(it)}
.firstOrNull{ it.contains('&')}
println(mixedColor)// "brown&blue"
}
```

## **Bit rotation operations on integers** 

In Kotlin 1.6.0, the `rotateLeft()` and `rotateRight()` functions for bit manipulations became Stable. The functions rotate the binary representation of the number left or right by a specified number of bits: 

2047 

```
funmain(){
val number: Short =0b10001
println(number
.rotateRight(2)
.toString(radix =2))// 100000000000100
println(number
.rotateLeft(2)
.toString(radix =2))// 1000100
}
```

## **Changes for replace() and replaceFirst() in JS** 

Before Kotlin 1.6.0, the `replace()` and `replaceFirst()` Regex functions behaved differently in Java and JS when the replacement string contained a group reference. To make the behavior consistent across all target platforms, we've changed their implementation in JS. 

Occurrences of `${name}` or `$index` in the replacement string are substituted with the subsequences corresponding to the captured groups with the specified index or a name: 

- `$index` – the first digit after '$' is always treated as a part of the group reference. Subsequent digits are 

- incorporated into the `index` only if they form a valid group reference.Only digits '0'–'9' are considered potential components of the group reference. Note that indexes of captured groups start from '1'. The group with index '0' stands for the whole match. 

- `${name}` – the `name` can consist of Latin letters 'a'–'z', 'A'–'Z', or digits '0'–'9'. The first character must be a 

- letter. 

Named groups in replacement patterns are currently supported only on the JVM. 

- To include the succeeding character as a literal in the replacement string, use the backslash character `\` : 

```
funmain(){
println(Regex("(.+)").replace("Kotlin","""\$ $1"""))// $ Kotlin
println(Regex("(.+)").replaceFirst("1.6.0","""\\ $1"""))// \ 1.6.0
}
```

You can use `Regex.escapeReplacement()` if the replacement string has to be treated as a literal string. 

## **Improvements to the existing API** 

- Version 1.6.0 added the infix extension function for `Comparable.compareTo()` . You can now use the infix form for comparing two objects for order: 

```
classWrappedText(val text: String): Comparable<WrappedText>{
overridefuncompareTo(other: WrappedText): Int =
this.text compareTo other.text
}
```

- 

   - `Regex.replace()` in JS is now also not inline to unify its implementation across all platforms. 

- The `compareTo()` and `equals()` String functions, as well as the `isBlank()` CharSequence function now behave in JS exactly the same way they do on the JVM. Previously there were deviations when it came to nonASCII characters. 

2048 

## **Deprecations** 

In Kotlin 1.6.0, we're starting the deprecation cycle with a warning for some JS-only stdlib API. 

## **concat(), match(), and matches() string functions** 

- To concatenate the string with the string representation of a given other object, use `plus()` instead of `concat()` . 

- To find all occurrences of a regular expression within the input, use `findAll()` of the Regex class instead of `String.match(regex: String)` . 

- To check if the regular expression matches the entire input, use `matches()` of the Regex class instead of `String.matches(regex: String)` . 

## **sort() on arrays taking comparison functions** 

We've deprecated the `Array<out T>.sort()` function and the inline functions `ByteArray.sort()` , 

`ShortArray.sort()` , `IntArray.sort()` , `LongArray.sort()` , `FloatArray.sort()` , `DoubleArray.sort()` , and `CharArray.sort()` , which sorted arrays following the order passed by the comparison function. Use other standard library functions for array sorting. 

See the collection ordering section for reference. 

## **Tools** 

## **Kover – a code coverage tool for Kotlin** 

The Kover Gradle plugin is Experimental. We would appreciate your feedback on it in GitHub. 

With Kotlin 1.6.0, we're introducing Kover – a Gradle plugin for the Intelli and JaCoCo Kotlin code coverage agents. It works with all language constructs, including inline functions. 

Learn more about Kover on its GitHub repository or in this video: 

## **Watch video online.** 

## **Coroutines 1.6.0-RC** 

`kotlinx.coroutines` 1.6.0-RC is out with multiple features and improvements: 

- 

   - Support for the new Kotlin/Native memory manager 

- Introduction of dispatcher views API, which allows limiting parallelism without creating additional threads 

- 

   - Migrating from Java 6 to Java 8 target 

- 

   - `kotlinx-coroutines-test` with the new reworked API and multiplatform support 

- Introduction of `CopyableThreadContextElement` , which gives coroutines a thread-safe write access to `ThreadLocal` variables 

Learn more in the changelog. 

2049 

## **Migrating to Kotlin 1.6.0** 

IntelliJ IDEA and Android Studio will suggest updating the Kotlin plugin to 1.6.0 once it is available. 

To migrate existing projects to Kotlin 1.6.0, change the Kotlin version to `1.6.0` and reimport your Gradle or Maven project. Learn how to update to Kotlin 1.6.0. 

To start a new project with Kotlin 1.6.0, update the Kotlin plugin and run the Project Wizard from **File** | **New** | **Project** . 

The new command-line compiler is available for download on the GitHub release page. 

Kotlin 1.6.0 is a feature release and can, therefore, bring changes that are incompatible with your code written for earlier versions of the language. Find the detailed list of such changes in the Compatibility Guide for Kotlin 1.6. 

## **Compatibility guide for Kotlin 1.6.x** 

Keeping the Language Modern and Comfortable Updates are among the fundamental principles in Kotlin Language Design. The former says that constructs which obstruct language evolution should be removed, and the latter says that this removal should be well-communicated beforehand to make code migration as smooth as possible. 

While most of the language changes were already announced through other channels, like update changelogs or compiler warnings, this document summarizes them all, providing a complete reference for migration from Kotlin 1.5 to Kotlin 1.6. 

## **Basic terms** 

In this document we introduce several kinds of compatibility: 

- source: source-incompatible change stops code that used to compile fine (without errors or warnings) from compiling anymore 

- binary: two binary artifacts are said to be binary-compatible if interchanging them doesn't lead to loading or linkage errors 

- behavioral: a change is said to be behavioral-incompatible if the same program demonstrates different behavior before and after applying the change 

Remember that those definitions are given only for pure Kotlin. Compatibility of Kotlin code from the other languages perspective (for example, from Java) is out of the scope of this document. 

2050 

## **Language** 

## **Make when statements with enum, sealed, and Boolean subjects exhaustive by default** 

**Issue** : KT-47709 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 will warn about the `when` statement with an enum, sealed, or Boolean subject being non-exhaustive 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.6.0: introduce a warning when the `when` statement with an enum, sealed, or Boolean subject is nonexhaustive (error in the progressive mode) 

- 

- 1.7.0: raise this warning to an error 

## **Deprecate confusing grammar in when-with-subject** 

**Issue** : KT-48385 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 will deprecate several confusing grammar constructs in `when` condition expressions 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 

- 1.6.20: introduce a deprecation warning on the affected expressions 

- 1.8.0: raise this warning to an error 

- >= 1.8: repurpose some deprecated constructs for new language features 

2051 

**Prohibit access to class members in the super constructor call of its companion and nested objects** 

**Issue** : KT-25289 

**Component** : Core language 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 will report an error for arguments of super constructor call of companion and regular objects if the receiver of such arguments refers to the containing declaration 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 1.5.20: introduce a warning on the problematic arguments 

- 1.6.0: raise this warning to an error, `-XXLanguage:-ProhibitSelfCallsInNestedObjects` can be used to temporarily revert to the pre-1.6 behavior 

## **Type nullability enhancement improvements** 

**Issue** : KT-48623 

**Component** : Kotlin/JVM 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.7 will change how it loads and interprets type nullability annotations in Java code 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.4.30: introduce warnings for cases where more precise type nullability could lead to an error 

- 1.7.0: infer more precise nullability of Java types, `-XXLanguage:-` 

`TypeEnhancementImprovementsInStrictMode` can be used to temporarily revert to the pre-1.7 behavior 

## **Prevent implicit coercions between different numeric types** 

**Issue** : KT-48645 

**Component** : Kotlin/JVM 

**Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

**Short summary** : Kotlin will avoid converting numeric values automatically to a primitive numeric type where only a downcast to that type was needed semantically 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - < 1.5.30: the old behavior in all affected cases 

- 1.5.30: fix the downcast behavior in generated property delegate accessors, `-Xuse-old-backend` can be used to temporarily revert to the pre-1.5.30 fix behavior 

- 

- >= 1.6.20: fix the downcast behavior in other affected cases 

2052 

**Prohibit declarations of repeatable annotation classes whose container annotation violates JLS** 

**Issue** : KT-47928 

**Component** : Kotlin/JVM 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 will check that the container annotation of a repeatable annotation satisfies the same requirements as in JLS 9.6.3: array-typed value method, retention, and target 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.5.30: introduce a warning on repeatable container annotation declarations violating JLS requirements (error in the progressive mode) 

- 1.6.0: raise this warning to an error, `-XXLanguage:-RepeatableAnnotationContainerConstraints` can be used to temporarily disable the error reporting 

## **Prohibit declaring a nested class named Container in a repeatable annotation class** 

**Issue** : KT-47971 

**Component** : Kotlin/JVM 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 will check that a repeatable annotation declared in Kotlin doesn't have a nested class with the predefined name `Container` 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.5.30: introduce a warning on nested classes with the name `Container` in a Kotlin-repeatable annotation class (error in the progressive mode) 

- 1.6.0: raise this warning to an error, `-XXLanguage:-RepeatableAnnotationContainerConstraints` can be used to temporarily disable the error reporting 

2053 

**Prohibit @JvmField on a property in the primary constructor that overrides an interface property** 

**Issue** : KT-32753 

**Component** : Kotlin/JVM 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 will outlaw annotating a property declared in the primary constructor that overrides an interface property with the `@JvmField` annotation 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.5.20: introduce a warning on the `@JvmField` annotation on such properties in the primary constructor 

- 

- 1.6.0: raise this warning to an error, `-XXLanguage:-` 

- `ProhibitJvmFieldOnOverrideFromInterfaceInPrimaryConstructor` can be used to temporarily disable the error reporting 

## **Deprecate the enable and the compatibility modes of the compiler option -Xjvm-default** 

**Issue** : KT-46329 

**Component** : Kotlin/JVM 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6.20 will warn about the usage of `enable` and `compatibility` modes of the `- Xjvm-default` compiler option 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.6.20: introduce a warning on the `enable` and `compatibility` modes of the `-Xjvm-default` compiler option 

- 

- >= 1.8.0: raise this warning to an error 

2054 

**Prohibit super calls from public-abi inline functions** 

**Issue** : KT-45379 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 will outlaw calling functions with a `super` qualifier from public or protected inline functions and properties 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.5.0: introduce a warning on super calls from public or protected inline functions or property accessors 

- 1.6.0: raise this warning to an error, `-XXLanguage:-ProhibitSuperCallsFromPublicInline` can be used to temporarily disable the error reporting 

## **Prohibit protected constructor calls from public inline functions** 

**Issue** : KT-48860 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 will outlaw calling protected constructors from public or protected inline functions and properties 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.4.30: introduce a warning on protected constructor calls from public or protected inline functions or property accessors 

- 

- 1.6.0: raise this warning to an error, `-XXLanguage:-` 

- `ProhibitProtectedConstructorCallFromPublicInline` can be used to temporarily disable the error reporting 

2055 

**Prohibit exposing private nested types from private-in-file types** 

## **Issue** : KT-20094 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 will outlaw exposing private nested types and inner classes from private-in-file types 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 1.5.0: introduce a warning on private types exposed from private-in-file types 

- 1.6.0: raise this warning to an error, `-XXLanguage:-PrivateInFileEffectiveVisibility` can be used to temporarily disable the error reporting 

## **Annotation target is not analyzed in several cases for annotations on a type** 

**Issue** : KT-28449 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 will no longer allow annotations on types that should not be applicable to types 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.5.20: introduce an error in the progressive mode 

- 1.6.0: introduce an error, `-XXLanguage:-ProperCheckAnnotationsTargetInTypeUsePositions` can be used to temporarily disable the error reporting 

## **Prohibit calls to functions named suspend with a trailing lambda** 

**Issue** : KT-22562 

**Component** : Core language 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 will no longer allow calling functions named `suspend` that have the single argument of a functional type passed as a trailing lambda 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

   - 1.3.0: introduce a warning on such function calls 

   - 1.6.0: raise this warning to an error 

- >= 1.7.0: introduce changes to the language grammar, so that `suspend` before `{` is parsed as a keyword 

2056 

**Standard library** 

## **Remove brittle contains optimization in minus/removeAll/retainAll** 

## **Issue** : KT-45438 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib 

## **Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 will no longer perform conversion to set for the argument of functions and operators that remove several elements from collection/iterable/array/sequence. 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - < 1.6: the old behavior: the argument is converted to set in some cases 

- 1.6.0: if the function argument is a collection, it's no longer converted to `Set` . If it's not a collection, it can be converted to `List` instead. 

The old behavior can be temporarily turned back on JVM by setting the system property 

   - `kotlin.collections.convert_arg_to_set_in_removeAll=true` 

- 

- >= 1.7: the system property above will no longer have an effect 

## **Change value generation algorithm in Random.nextLong** 

## **Issue** : KT-47304 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib 

## **Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

**Short summary** : Kotlin 1.6 changes the value generation algorithm in the `Random.nextLong` function to avoid producing values out of the specified range. 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.6.0: the behavior is fixed immediately 

2057 

## **Gradually change the return type of collection min and max functions to non-nullable** 

## **Issue** : KT-38854 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : the return type of collection `min` and `max` functions will be changed to non-nullable in Kotlin 1.7 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.4.0: introduce `...OrNull` functions as synonyms and deprecate the affected API (see details in the issue) 

- 

- 

- 

- 1.5.0: raise the deprecation level of the affected API to an error 

- 1.6.0: hide the deprecated functions from the public API 

- >= 1.7: reintroduce the affected API but with non-nullable return type 

## **Deprecate floating-point array functions: contains, indexOf, lastIndexOf** 

## **Issue** : KT-28753 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : Kotlin deprecates floating-point array functions `contains` , `indexOf` , `lastIndexOf` that compare values using the IEEE-754 order instead of the total order 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 

- 1.4.0: deprecate the affected functions with a warning 

- 1.6.0: raise the deprecation level to an error 

- >= 1.7: hide the deprecated functions from the public API 

2058 

**Migrate declarations from kotlin.dom and kotlin.browser packages to kotlinx.*** 

**Issue** : KT-39330 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib (JS) 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : declarations from the `kotlin.dom` and `kotlin.browser` packages are moved to the corresponding `kotlinx.*` packages to prepare for extracting them from stdlib 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 1.4.0: introduce the replacement API in `kotlinx.dom` and `kotlinx.browser` packages 

- 1.4.0: deprecate the API in `kotlin.dom` and `kotlin.browser` packages and propose the new API above as a replacement 

- 

- 

- 

- 1.6.0: raise the deprecation level to an error 

- >= 1.7: remove the deprecated functions from stdlib 

- >= 1.7: move the API in kotlinx.* packages to a separate library 

## **Make Regex.replace function not inline in Kotlin/JS** 

**Issue** : KT-27738 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib (JS) 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : the `Regex.replace` function with the functional `transform` parameter will no longer be inline in Kotlin/JS 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.6.0: remove the `inline` modifier from the affected function 

## **Different behavior of the Regex.replace function in JVM and JS when replacement string contains group reference** 

**Issue** : KT-28378 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib (JS) 

**Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

**Short summary** : the function `Regex.replace` in Kotlin/JS with the replacement pattern string will follow the same syntax of that pattern as in Kotlin/JVM 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.6.0: change the replacement pattern handling in `Regex.replace` of the Kotlin/JS stdlib 

2059 

**Use the Unicode case folding in JS Regex** 

**Issue** : KT-45928 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib (JS) 

## **Incompatible change type** : behavioral 

**Short summary** : the `Regex` class in Kotlin/JS will use `unicode` flag when calling the underlying JS Regular expressions engine to search and compare characters according to the Unicode rules. This brings certain version requirements of the JS environment and causes more strict validation of unnecessary escaping in the regex pattern string. 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 1.5.0: enable the Unicode case folding in most functions of the JS `Regex` class 

- 

- 1.6.0: enable the Unicode case folding in the `Regex.replaceFirst` function 

## **Deprecate some JS-only API** 

**Issue** : KT-48587 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib (JS) 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : a number of JS-only functions in stdlib are deprecated for removal. They include: `String.concat(String)` , `String.match(regex: String)` , `String.matches(regex: String)` , and the `sort` functions on arrays taking a comparison function, for example, `Array<out T>.sort(comparison: (a: T, b: T) -> Int)` 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 

- 1.6.0: deprecate the affected functions with a warning 

- 1.7.0: raise the deprecation level to an error 

- 1.8.0: remove the deprecated functions from the public API 

## **Hide implementation- and interop-specific functions from the public API of classes in Kotlin/JS** 

**Issue** : KT-48587 

**Component** : kotlin-stdlib (JS) 

## **Incompatible change type** : source, binary 

**Short summary** : the functions `HashMap.createEntrySet` and `AbstactMutableCollection.toJSON` change their visibility to internal 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 1.6.0: make the functions internal, thus removing them from the public API 

2060 

## **Tools** 

## **Deprecate KotlinGradleSubplugin class** 

## **Issue** : KT-48830 

**Component** : Gradle 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : the class `KotlinGradleSubplugin` will be deprecated in favor of `KotlinCompilerPluginSupportPlugin` 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.6.0: raise the deprecation level to an error 

- >= 1.7.0: remove the deprecated class 

## **Remove kotlin.useFallbackCompilerSearch build option** 

## **Issue** : KT-46719 

**Component** : Gradle 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : remove the deprecated 'kotlin.useFallbackCompilerSearch' build option 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.5.0: raise the deprecation level to a warning 

- 1.6.0: remove the deprecated option 

## **Remove several compiler options** 

**Issue** : KT-48847 

**Component** : Gradle 

## **Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : remove the deprecated `noReflect` and `includeRuntime` compiler options 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.5.0: raise the deprecation level to an error 

- 1.6.0: remove the deprecated options 

2061 

## **Deprecate useIR compiler option** 

**Issue** : KT-48847 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : hide the deprecated `useIR` compiler option 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 

- 1.5.0: raise the deprecation level to a warning 

- 1.6.0: hide the option 

- >= 1.7.0: remove the deprecated option 

## **Deprecate kapt.use.worker.api Gradle property** 

**Issue** : KT-48826 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : deprecate the `kapt.use.worker.api` property that allowed to run kapt via Gradle Workers API (default: true) 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.6.20: raise the deprecation level to a warning 

- >= 1.8.0: remove this property 

## **Remove kotlin.parallel.tasks.in.project Gradle property** 

**Issue** : KT-46406 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : remove the `kotlin.parallel.tasks.in.project` property 

**Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

   - 1.5.20: raise the deprecation level to a warning 

- 1.6.20: remove this property 

2062 

**Deprecate kotlin.experimental.coroutines Gradle DSL option and kotlin.coroutines Gradle property** 

**Issue** : KT-50369 

**Component** : Gradle 

**Incompatible change type** : source 

**Short summary** : deprecate the `kotlin.experimental.coroutines` Gradle DSL option and the `kotlin.coroutines` property 

## **Deprecation cycle** : 

- 

- 

- 1.6.20: raise the deprecation level to a warning 

- >= 1.7.0: remove the DSL option and the property 

## **What's new in Kotlin 1.5.30** 

## Released: 24 August 2021 

Kotlin 1.5.30 offers language updates including previews of future changes, various improvements in platform support and tooling, and new standard library functions. 

Here are some major improvements: 

- Language features, including experimental sealed `when` statements, changes in using opt-in requirement, and others 

- Native support for Apple silicon 

- Kotlin/JS IR backend reaches Beta 

- Improved Gradle plugin experience 

You can also find a short overview of the changes in the release blog post and this video: 

## **Watch video online.** 

For information about the Kotlin release cycle, see Kotlin release process. 

## **Language features** 

Kotlin 1.5.30 is presenting previews of future language changes and bringing improvements to the opt-in requirement mechanism and type inference: 

- Exhaustive when statements for sealed and Boolean subjects 

- 

   - Suspending functions as supertypes 

- 

   - 

   - Requiring opt in on implicit usages of experimental APIs 

- Changes to using opt-in requirement annotations with different targets 

- 

## Improvements to type inference for recursive generic types 

2063 

• Eliminating builder inference restrictions 

## **Exhaustive when statements for sealed and Boolean subjects** 

Support for sealed (exhaustive) when statements is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see the details below), and you should use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

An exhaustive `when` statement contains branches for either all possible types or values of its subject, or for certain types and includes an `else` branch to cover any remaining cases. 

We're planning to prohibit non-exhaustive `when` statements soon to make the behavior consistent with `when` expressions. To ensure smooth migration, you can configure the compiler to report warnings about nonexhaustive `when` statements with a sealed class or a Boolean. Such warnings will appear by default in Kotlin 1.6 and will become errors later. 

Enums already get a warning. 

```
sealedclass Mode {
object ON :Mode()
object OFF :Mode()
}
funmain(){
val x: Mode = Mode.ON
when(x){
        Mode.ON />println("ON")
}
// WARNING: Non exhaustive 'when' statements on sealed classes/interfaces
// will be prohibited in 1.7, add an 'OFF' or 'else' branch instead
val y: Boolean =true
when(y){
true/>println("true")
}
// WARNING: Non exhaustive 'when' statements on Booleans will be prohibited
// in 1.7, add a 'false' or 'else' branch instead
}
```

To enable this feature in Kotlin 1.5.30, use language version `1.6` . You can also change the warnings to errors by enabling progressive mode. 

**Kotlin** 

```
kotlin {
    sourceSets.all{
        languageSettings.apply{
            languageVersion ="1.6"
//progressiveMode = true // false by default
}
}
}
```

2064 

## **Groovy** 

```
kotlin {
    sourceSets.all {
        languageSettings {
            languageVersion ='1.6'
//progressiveMode = true // false by default
}
}
}
```

## **Suspending functions as supertypes** 

Support for suspending functions as supertypes is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see the details below), and you should use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

Kotlin 1.5.30 provides a preview of the ability to use a `suspend` functional type as a supertype with some limitations. 

```
class MyClass:suspend()/> Unit {
overridesuspendfuninvoke(){TODO()}
}
```

Use the `-language-version 1.6` compiler option to enable the feature: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
kotlin {
    sourceSets.all{
        languageSettings.apply{
            languageVersion ="1.6"
}
}
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
kotlin {
    sourceSets.all {
        languageSettings {
            languageVersion ='1.6'
}
}
}
```

The feature has the following restrictions: 

- You can't mix an ordinary functional type and a `suspend` functional type as supertype. This is because of the implementation details of `suspend` functional types in the JVM backend. They are represented in it as ordinary 

2065 

functional types with a marker interface. Because of the marker interface, there is no way to tell which of the superinterfaces are suspended and which are ordinary. 

- You can't use multiple `suspend` functional supertypes. If there are type checks, you also can't use multiple ordinary functional supertypes. 

## **Requiring opt-in on implicit usages of experimental APIs** 

The opt-in requirement mechanism is Experimental. It may change at any time. See how to opt-in. Use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

The author of a library can mark an experimental API as requiring opt-in to inform users about its experimental state. The compiler raises a warning or error when the API is used and requires explicit consent to suppress it. 

In Kotlin 1.5.30, the compiler treats any declaration that has an experimental type in the signature as experimental. Namely, it requires opt-in even for implicit usages of an experimental API. For example, if the function's return type is marked as an experimental API element, a usage of the function requires you to opt-in even if the declaration is not marked as requiring an opt-in explicitly. 

```
// Library code
@RequiresOptIn(message ="This API is experimental.")
@Retention(AnnotationRetention.BINARY)
@Target(AnnotationTarget.CLASS)
annotationclass MyDateTime // Opt-in requirement annotation
```

```
@MyDateTime
class DateProvider // A class requiring opt-in
```

```
// Client code
```

```
// Warning: experimental API usage
funcreateDateSource(): DateProvider {/* //. //}
```

```
fungetDate(): Date {
val dateSource =createDateSource()// Also warning: experimental API usage
// //.
}
```

Learn more about opt-in requirements. 

## **Changes to using opt-in requirement annotations with different targets** 

The opt-in requirement mechanism is Experimental. It may change at any time. See how to opt-in. Use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

Kotlin 1.5.30 presents new rules for using and declaring opt-in requirement annotations on different targets. The compiler now reports an error for use cases that are impractical to handle at compile time. In Kotlin 1.5.30: 

- Marking local variables and value parameters with opt-in requirement annotations is forbidden at the use site. 

- Marking override is allowed only if its basic declaration is also marked. 

- Marking backing fields and getters is forbidden. You can mark the basic property instead. 

2066 

- Setting `TYPE` and `TYPE_PARAMETER` annotation targets is forbidden at the opt-in requirement annotation declaration site. 

Learn more about opt-in requirements. 

## **Improvements to type inference for recursive generic types** 

In Kotlin and Java, you can define a recursive generic type, which references itself in its type parameters. In Kotlin 1.5.30, the Kotlin compiler can infer a type argument based only on upper bounds of the corresponding type parameter if it is a recursive generic. This makes it possible to create various patterns with recursive generic types that are often used in Java to make builder APIs. 

```
// Kotlin 1.5.20
val containerA = PostgreSQLContainer<Nothing>(DockerImageName.parse("postgres:13-alpine")).apply{
withDatabaseName("db")
withUsername("user")
withPassword("password")
withInitScript("sql/schema.sql")
}
// Kotlin 1.5.30
val containerB =PostgreSQLContainer(DockerImageName.parse("postgres:13-alpine"))
.withDatabaseName("db")
.withUsername("user")
.withPassword("password")
.withInitScript("sql/schema.sql")
```

You can enable the improvements by passing the `-Xself-upper-bound-inference` or the `-language-version 1.6` compiler options. See other examples of newly supported use cases in this YouTrack ticket. 

## **Eliminating builder inference restrictions** 

Builder inference is a special kind of type inference that allows you to infer the type arguments of a call based on type information from other calls inside its lambda argument. This can be useful when calling generic builder functions such as `buildList()` or `sequence()` : `buildList { add("string") }` . 

Inside such a lambda argument, there was previously a limitation on using the type information that the builder inference tries to infer. This means you can only specify it and cannot get it. For example, you cannot call `get()` inside a lambda argument of `buildList()` without explicitly specified type arguments. 

Kotlin 1.5.30 removes these limitations with the `-Xunrestricted-builder-inference` compiler option. Add this option to enable previously prohibited calls inside a lambda argument of generic builder functions: 

2067 

```
@kotlin.ExperimentalStdlibApi
val list = buildList {
add("a")
add("b")
set(1,null)
val x =get(1)
if(x /=null){
removeAt(1)
}
}
@kotlin.ExperimentalStdlibApi
val map = buildMap {
put("a",1)
put("b",1.1)
put("c",2f)
}
```

Also, you can enable this feature with the `-language-version 1.6` compiler option. 

## **Kotlin/JVM** 

With Kotlin 1.5.30, Kotlin/JVM receives the following features: 

- Instantiation of annotation classes 

- 

- Improved nullability annotation support configuration 

See the Gradle section for Kotlin Gradle plugin updates on the JVM platform. 

## **Instantiation of annotation classes** 

Instantiation of annotation classes is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see the details below), and you should use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

With Kotlin 1.5.30 you can now call constructors of annotation classes in arbitrary code to obtain a resulting instance. This feature covers the same use cases as the Java convention that allows the implementation of an annotation interface. 

```
annotationclassInfoMarker(val info: String)
funprocessInfo(marker: InfoMarker)=.
funmain(args: Array<String>){
if(args.size /=0)
processInfo(getAnnotationReflective(args))
else
processInfo(InfoMarker("default"))
}
```

Use the `-language-version 1.6` compiler option to enable this feature. Note that all current annotation class limitations, such as restrictions to define non- `val` parameters or members different from secondary constructors, remain intact. 

Learn more about instantiation of annotation classes in this KEEP 

2068 

## **Improved nullability annotation support configuration** 

The Kotlin compiler can read various types of nullability annotations to get nullability information from Java. This information allows it to report nullability mismatches in Kotlin when calling Java code. 

In Kotlin 1.5.30, you can specify whether the compiler reports a nullability mismatch based on the information from specific types of nullability annotations. Just use the compiler option `-Xnullability-annotations=@<packagename>:<report-level>` . In the argument, specify the fully qualified nullability annotations package and one of these report levels: 

- `ignore` to ignore nullability mismatches 

- `warn` to report warnings 

- `strict` to report errors. 

See the full list of supported nullability annotations along with their fully qualified package names. 

Here is an example showing how to enable error reporting for the newly supported RxJava 3 nullability annotations: `-Xnullability-annotations=@io.reactivex.rxjava3.annotations:strict` . Note that all such nullability mismatches are warnings by default. 

## **Kotlin/Native** 

Kotlin/Native has received various changes and improvements: 

- Apple silicon support 

- 

   - Improved Kotlin DSL for the CocoaPods Gradle plugin 

- 

   - Experimental interoperability with Swift 5.5 async/await 

- 

   - 

   - Improved Swift/Objective C mapping for objects and companion objects 

- 

## Deprecation of linkage against DLLs without import libraries for MinGW targets 

## **Apple silicon support** 

Kotlin 1.5.30 introduces native support for Apple silicon. 

Previously, the Kotlin/Native compiler and tooling required the Rosetta translation environment for working on Apple silicon hosts. In Kotlin 1.5.30, the translation environment is no longer needed – the compiler and tooling can run on Apple silicon hardware without requiring any additional actions. 

We've also introduced new targets that make Kotlin code run natively on Apple silicon: 

- `macosArm64` 

- `iosSimulatorArm64` 

- `watchosSimulatorArm64` 

- `tvosSimulatorArm64` 

They are available on both Intel-based and Apple silicon hosts. All existing targets are available on Apple silicon hosts as well. 

Note that in 1.5.30 we provide only basic support for Apple silicon targets in the `kotlin-multiplatform` Gradle plugin. Particularly, the new simulator targets aren't included in the `ios` , `tvos` , and `watchos` target shortcuts. We will keep working to improve the user experience with the new targets. 

2069 

**Improved Kotlin DSL for the CocoaPods Gradle plugin** 

## **New parameters for Kotlin/Native frameworks** 

Kotlin 1.5.30 introduces the improved CocoaPods Gradle plugin DSL for Kotlin/Native frameworks. In addition to 

the name of the framework, you can specify other parameters in the Pod configuration: 

- Specify the dynamic or static version of the framework 

- 

   - Enable export dependencies explicitly 

- Enable Bitcode embedding 

To use the new DSL, update your project to Kotlin 1.5.30, and specify the parameters in the `cocoapods` section of your `build.gradle(.kts)` file: 

```
cocoapods {
    frameworkName ="MyFramework"// This property is deprecated
// and will be removed in future versions
// New DSL for framework configuration:
    framework {
// All Framework properties are supported
// Framework name configuration. Use this property instead of
// deprecated 'frameworkName'
        baseName ="MyFramework"
// Dynamic framework support
        isStatic =false
// Dependency export
export(project(":anotherKMMModule"))
        transitiveExport =false// This is default.
// Bitcode embedding
embedBitcode(BITCODE)
}
}
```

## **Support custom names for Xcode configuration** 

The Kotlin CocoaPods Gradle plugin supports custom names in the Xcode build configuration. It will also help you if you're using special names for the build configuration in Xcode, for example `Staging` . 

To specify a custom name, use the `xcodeConfigurationToNativeBuildType` parameter in the `cocoapods` section of your `build.gradle(.kts)` file: 

```
cocoapods {
// Maps custom Xcode configuration to NativeBuildType
    xcodeConfigurationToNativeBuildType["CUSTOM_DEBUG"]= NativeBuildType.DEBUG
    xcodeConfigurationToNativeBuildType["CUSTOM_RELEASE"]= NativeBuildType.RELEASE
}
```

This parameter will not appear in the Podspec file. When Xcode runs the Gradle build process, the Kotlin CocoaPods Gradle plugin will select the necessary native build type. 

There's no need to declare the `Debug` and `Release` configurations because they are supported by default. 

2070 

## **Experimental interoperability with Swift 5.5 async/await** 

Concurrency interoperability with Swift async/await is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. You should use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

We added support for calling Kotlin's suspending functions from Objective-C and Swift in 1.4.0, and now we're improving it to keep up with a new Swift 5.5 feature – concurrency with `async` and `await` modifiers. 

The Kotlin/Native compiler now emits the `_Nullable_result` attribute in the generated Objective-C headers for suspending functions with nullable return types. This makes it possible to call them from Swift as `async` functions with the proper nullability. 

Note that this feature is experimental and can be affected in the future by changes in both Kotlin and Swift. For now, we're offering a preview of this feature that has certain limitations, and we are eager to hear what you think. Learn more about its current state and leave your feedback in this YouTrack issue. 

## **Improved Swift/Objective-C mapping for objects and companion objects** 

Getting objects and companion objects can now be done in a way that is more intuitive for native iOS developers. For example, if you have the following objects in Kotlin: 

```
object MyObject {
val x ="Some value"
}
class MyClass {
companionobject{
val x ="Some value"
}
}
```

To access them in Swift, you can use the `shared` and `companion` properties: 

```
MyObject.shared
MyObject.shared.x
MyClass.companion
MyClass.Companion.shared
```

Learn more about Swift/Objective-C interoperability. 

## **Deprecation of linkage against DLLs without import libraries for MinGW targets** 

LLD is a linker from the LLVM project, which we plan to start using in Kotlin/Native for MinGW targets because of its benefits over the default ld.bfd – primarily its better performance. 

However, the latest stable version of LLD doesn't support direct linkage against DLL for MinGW (Windows) targets. Such linkage requires using import libraries. Although they aren't needed with Kotlin/Native 1.5.30, we're adding a warning to inform you that such usage is incompatible with LLD that will become the default linker for MinGW in the future. 

Please share your thoughts and concerns about the transition to the LLD linker in this YouTrack issue. 

2071 

## **Kotlin Multiplatform** 

1.5.30 brings the following notable updates to Kotlin Multiplatform: 

- Ability to use custom `cinterop` libraries in shared native code 

- 

   - Support for XCFrameworks 

- 

- New default publishing setup for Android artifacts 

## **Ability to use custom cinterop libraries in shared native code** 

Kotlin Multiplatform gives you an option to use platform-dependent interop libraries in shared source sets. Before 

1.5.30, this worked only with platform libraries shipped with Kotlin/Native distribution. Starting from 1.5.30, you can use it with your custom `cinterop` libraries. To enable this feature, add the 

`kotlin.mpp.enableCInteropCommonization=true` property in your `gradle.properties` : 

```
kotlin.mpp.enableGranularSourceSetsMetadata=true
kotlin.native.enableDependencyPropagation=false
kotlin.mpp.enableCInteropCommonization=true
```

## **Support for XCFrameworks** 

All Kotlin Multiplatform projects can now have XCFrameworks as an output format. Apple introduced 

XCFrameworks as a replacement for universal (fat) frameworks. With the help of XCFrameworks you: 

- 

   - Can gather logic for all the target platforms and architectures in a single bundle. 

- Don't need to remove all unnecessary architectures before publishing the application to the App Store. 

XCFrameworks is useful if you want to use your Kotlin framework for devices and simulators on Apple M1. 

To use XCFrameworks, update your `build.gradle(.kts)` script: 

2072 

## **Kotlin** 

```
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.plugin.mpp.apple.XCFramework
plugins {
kotlin("multiplatform")
}
kotlin {
val xcf =XCFramework()
    ios {
        binaries.framework{
            baseName ="shared"
            xcf.add(this)
}
}
    watchos {
        binaries.framework{
            baseName ="shared"
            xcf.add(this)
}
}
    tvos {
        binaries.framework{
            baseName ="shared"
            xcf.add(this)
}
}
}
```

2073 

## **Groovy** 

```
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.plugin.mpp.apple.XCFrameworkConfig
plugins {
    id 'org.jetbrains.kotlin.multiplatform'
}
kotlin {
def xcf =newXCFrameworkConfig(project)
    ios {
        binaries.framework {
            baseName ="shared"
            xcf.add(it)
}
}
    watchos {
        binaries.framework {
            baseName ="shared"
            xcf.add(it)
}
}
    tvos {
        binaries.framework {
            baseName ="shared"
            xcf.add(it)
}
}
}
```

When you declare XCFrameworks, these new Gradle tasks will be registered: 

- 

   - `assembleXCFramework` 

- `assembleDebugXCFramework` (additionally debug artifact that contains dSYMs) 

- 

- `assembleReleaseXCFramework` 

Learn more about XCFrameworks in this WWDC video. 

## **New default publishing setup for Android artifacts** 

Using the `maven-publish` Gradle plugin, you can publish your multiplatform library for the Android target by specifying Android variant names in the build script. The Kotlin Gradle plugin will generate publications automatically. 

Before 1.5.30, the generated publication metadata included the build type attributes for every published Android variant, making it compatible only with the same build type used by the library consumer. Kotlin 1.5.30 introduces a new default publishing setup: 

- If all Android variants that the project publishes have the same build type attribute, then the published variants won't have the build type attribute and will be compatible with any build type. 

- If the published variants have different build type attributes, then only those with the `release` value will be published without the build type attribute. This makes the release variants compatible with any build type on the consumer side, while non-release variants will only be compatible with the matching consumer build types. 

2074 

To opt-out and keep the build type attributes for all variants, you can set this Gradle property: `kotlin.android.buildTypeAttribute.keep=true` . 

## **Kotlin/JS** 

Two major improvements are coming to Kotlin/JS with 1.5.30: 

- JS IR compiler backend reaches Beta 

- 

## Better debugging experience for applications with the Kotlin/JS IR backend 

## **JS IR compiler backend reaches Beta** 

The IR-based compiler backend for Kotlin/JS, which was introduced in 1.4.0 in Alpha, has reached Beta. 

Previously, we published the migration guide for the JS IR backend to help you migrate your projects to the new backend. Now we would like to present the Kotlin/JS Inspection Pack IDE plugin, which displays the required changes directly in IntelliJ IDEA. 

## **Better debugging experience for applications with the Kotlin/JS IR backend** 

Kotlin 1.5.30 brings JavaScript source map generation for the Kotlin/JS IR backend. This will improve the Kotlin/JS debugging experience when the IR backend is enabled, with full debugging support that includes breakpoints, stepping, and readable stack traces with proper source references. 

Learn how to debug Kotlin/JS in the browser or Intelli IDEA. 

## **Gradle** 

As a part of our mission to improve the Kotlin Gradle plugin user experience, we've implemented the following features: 

- Support for Java toolchains, which includes an ability to specify a JDK home with the 

## `UsesKotlinJavaToolchain` interface for older Gradle versions 

- 

## An easier way to explicitly specify the Kotlin daemon's JVM arguments 

## **Support for Java toolchains** 

Gradle 6.7 introduced the "Java toolchains support" feature. Using this feature, you can: 

- 

   - Run compilations, tests, and executables using JDKs and JREs that are different from the Gradle ones. 

- Compile and test code with an unreleased language version. 

With toolchains support, Gradle can autodetect local JDKs and install missing JDKs that Gradle requires for the build. Now Gradle itself can run on any JDK and still reuse the build cache feature. 

The Kotlin Gradle plugin supports Java toolchains for Kotlin/JVM compilation tasks. A Java toolchain: 

- Sets the `jdkHome` option available for JVM targets. 

The ability to set the `jdkHome` option directly has been deprecated. 

2075 

- Sets the `kotlinOptions.jvmTarget` to the toolchain's JDK version if the user didn't set the `jvmTarget` option explicitly. If the toolchain is not configured, the `jvmTarget` field uses the default value. Learn more about JVM target compatibility. 

- Affects which JDK `kapt` workers are running on. 

Use the following code to set a toolchain. Replace the placeholder `<MAJOR_JDK_VERSION>` with the JDK version you would like to use: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
kotlin {
    jvmToolchain {
(thisas JavaToolchainSpec).languageVersion.set(JavaLanguageVersion.of(<MAJOR_JDK_VERSION>))
// "8"
}
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
kotlin {
    jvmToolchain {
        languageVersion.set(JavaLanguageVersion.of(<MAJOR_JDK_VERSION>))// "8"
}
}
```

Note that setting a toolchain via the `kotlin` extension will update the toolchain for Java compile tasks as well. 

You can set a toolchain via the `java` extension, and Kotlin compilation tasks will use it: 

```
java {
    toolchain {
        languageVersion.set(JavaLanguageVersion.of(<MAJOR_JDK_VERSION>))// "8"
}
}
```

For information about setting any JDK version for `KotlinCompile` tasks, look through the docs about setting the JDK version with the Task DSL. 

For Gradle versions from 6.1 to 6.6, use the `UsesKotlinJavaToolchain` interface to set the JDK home. 

## **Ability to specify JDK home with UsesKotlinJavaToolchain interface** 

All Kotlin tasks that support setting the JDK via `kotlinOptions` now implement the `UsesKotlinJavaToolchain` interface. To set the JDK home, put a path to your JDK and replace the `<JDK_VERSION>` placeholder: 

2076 

**Kotlin** `project.tasks .withType<UsesKotlinJavaToolchain>() .configureEach { it.kotlinJavaToolchain.jdk.use(` **`"/path/to/local/jdk"`** `, JavaVersion.<LOCAL_JDK_VERSION> ) }` 

**Groovy** 

```
project.tasks
.withType(UsesKotlinJavaToolchain.class)
.configureEach {
        it.kotlinJavaToolchain.jdk.use(
'/path/to/local/jdk',
            JavaVersion.<LOCAL_JDK_VERSION>
)
}
```

Use the `UsesKotlinJavaToolchain` interface for Gradle versions from 6.1 to 6.6. Starting from Gradle 6.7, use the Java toolchains instead. 

When using this feature, note that kapt task workers will only use process isolation mode, and the `kapt.workers.isolation` property will be ignored. 

## **Easier way to explicitly specify Kotlin daemon JVM arguments** 

In Kotlin 1.5.30, there's a new logic for the Kotlin daemon's JVM arguments. Each of the options in the following list overrides the ones that came before it: 

- If nothing is specified, the Kotlin daemon inherits arguments from the Gradle daemon (as before). For example, in the `gradle.properties` file: 

```
org.gradle.jvmargs=-Xmx1500m -Xms=500m
```

- If the Gradle daemon's JVM arguments have the `kotlin.daemon.jvm.options` system property, use it as before: 

```
org.gradle.jvmargs=-Dkotlin.daemon.jvm.options=-Xmx1500m -Xms=500m
```

- You can add the `kotlin.daemon.jvmargs` property in the `gradle.properties` file: 

```
kotlin.daemon.jvmargs=-Xmx1500m -Xms=500m
```

- You can specify arguments in the `kotlin` extension: 

2077 

## **Kotlin** 

```
kotlin {
```

```
    kotlinDaemonJvmArgs =listOf("-Xmx486m","-Xms256m","-XX:+UseParallelGC")
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
kotlin {
    kotlinDaemonJvmArgs =["-Xmx486m","-Xms256m","-XX:+UseParallelGC"]
}
```

- You can specify arguments for a specific task: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
tasks
```

```
.matching{ it.name /="compileKotlin"/& it is CompileUsingKotlinDaemon }
.configureEach{
```

```
(thisas CompileUsingKotlinDaemon).kotlinDaemonJvmArguments.set(listOf("-Xmx486m","-
Xms256m","-XX:+UseParallelGC"))
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
tasks
.matching {
        it.name /="compileKotlin"/& it instanceofCompileUsingKotlinDaemon
}
.configureEach {
        kotlinDaemonJvmArguments.set(["-Xmx1g","-Xms512m"])
}
```

In this case a new Kotlin daemon instance can start on task execution. Learn more about the Kotlin daemon's interactions with JVM arguments. 

For more information about the Kotlin daemon, see the Kotlin daemon and using it with Gradle. 

## **Standard library** 

Kotlin 1.5.30 is bringing improvements to the standard library's `Duration` and `Regex` APIs: 

- Changing `Duration.toString()` output 

- Parsing Duration from String 

- 

   - Matching with Regex at a particular position 

- Splitting Regex to a sequence 

2078 

## **Changing Duration.toString() output** 

The Duration API is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate hearing your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

Before Kotlin 1.5.30, the `Duration.toString()` function would return a string representation of its argument expressed in the unit that yielded the most compact and readable number value. From now on, it will return a string value expressed as a combination of numeric components, each in its own unit. Each component is a number followed by the unit's abbreviated name: `d` , `h` , `m` , `s` . For example: 

|**Example of function call**|**Previous output Current output**|**Previous output Current output**|
|---|---|---|
|Duration.days(45).toString()|`45.0d`|`45d`|
|Duration.days(1.5).toString()|`36.0h`|`1d 12h`|
|Duration.minutes(1230).toString()|`20.5h`|`20h 30m`|
|Duration.minutes(2415).toString()|`40.3h`|`1d 16h 15m`|
|Duration.minutes(920).toString()|`920m`|`15h 20m`|
|Duration.seconds(1.546).toString()|`1.55s`|`1.546s`|
|Duration.milliseconds(25.12).toString()|`25.1ms`|`25.12ms`|



The way negative durations are represented has also been changed. A negative duration is prefixed with a minus sign ( `-` ), and if it consists of multiple components, it is surrounded with parentheses: `-12m` and `-(1h 30m)` . 

Note that small durations of less than one second are represented as a single number with one of the subsecond units. For example, `ms` (milliseconds), `us` (microseconds), or `ns` (nanoseconds): `140.884ms` , `500us` , `24ns` . Scientific notation is no longer used to represent them. 

If you want to express duration in a single unit, use the overloaded `Duration.toString(unit, decimals)` function. 

We recommend using `Duration.toIsoString()` in certain cases, including serialization and - interchange. `Duration.toIsoString()` uses the stricter ISO 8601 format instead of `Duration.toString()` . 

## **Parsing Duration from String** 

The Duration API is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate hearing your feedback on it in this issue. 

In Kotlin 1.5.30, there are new functions in the Duration API: 

2079 

- `parse()` , which supports parsing the outputs of: 

   - `toString()` . 

   - 

      - `toString(unit, decimals)` . 

   - `toIsoString()` . 

- `parseIsoString()` , which only parses from the format produced by `toIsoString()` . 

- `parseOrNull()` and `parseIsoStringOrNull()` , which behave like the functions above but return `null` 

- instead of throwing `IllegalArgumentException` on invalid duration formats. 

Here are some examples of `parse()` and `parseOrNull()` usages: 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration
import kotlin.time.ExperimentalTime
@ExperimentalTime
funmain(){
val isoFormatString ="PT1H30M"
val defaultFormatString ="1h 30m"
val singleUnitFormatString ="1.5h"
val invalidFormatString ="1 hour 30 minutes"
println(Duration.parse(isoFormatString))// "1h 30m"
println(Duration.parse(defaultFormatString))// "1h 30m"
println(Duration.parse(singleUnitFormatString))// "1h 30m"
//println(Duration.parse(invalidFormatString)) // throws exception
println(Duration.parseOrNull(invalidFormatString))// "null"
}
```

And here are some examples of `parseIsoString()` and `parseIsoStringOrNull()` usages: 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration
import kotlin.time.ExperimentalTime
@ExperimentalTime
funmain(){
val isoFormatString ="PT1H30M"
val defaultFormatString ="1h 30m"
println(Duration.parseIsoString(isoFormatString))// "1h 30m"
//println(Duration.parseIsoString(defaultFormatString)) // throws exception
println(Duration.parseIsoStringOrNull(defaultFormatString))// "null"
}
```

## **Matching with Regex at a particular position** 

`Regex.matchAt()` and `Regex.matchesAt()` functions are Experimental. They may be dropped or changed at any time. Use them only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate hearing your feedback on them in YouTrack. 

The new `Regex.matchAt()` and `Regex.matchesAt()` functions provide a way to check whether a regex has an exact match at a particular position in a `String` or `CharSequence` . 

`matchesAt()` returns a boolean result: 

2080 

```
funmain(){
val releaseText ="Kotlin 1.5.30 is released!"
// regular expression: one digit, dot, one digit, dot, one or more digits
val versionRegex ="\\d[.]\\d[.]\\d+".toRegex()
println(versionRegex.matchesAt(releaseText,0))// "false"
println(versionRegex.matchesAt(releaseText,7))// "true"
}
```

`matchAt()` returns the match if one is found or `null` if one isn't: 

```
funmain(){
val releaseText ="Kotlin 1.5.30 is released!"
val versionRegex ="\\d[.]\\d[.]\\d+".toRegex()
println(versionRegex.matchAt(releaseText,0))// "null"
println(versionRegex.matchAt(releaseText,7).value)// "1.5.30"
}
```

## **Splitting Regex to a sequence** 

`Regex.splitToSequence()` and `CharSequence.splitToSequence(Regex)` functions are Experimental. They may be dropped or changed at any time. Use them only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate hearing your feedback on them in YouTrack. 

The new `Regex.splitToSequence()` function is a lazy counterpart of `split()` . It splits the string around matches of the given regex, but it returns the result as a Sequence so that all operations on this result are executed lazily. 

```
funmain(){
val colorsText ="green, red , brown&blue, orange, pink&green"
val regex ="[,\\s]+".toRegex()
val mixedColor = regex.splitToSequence(colorsText)
.onEach{println(it)}
.firstOrNull{ it.contains('&')}
println(mixedColor)// "brown&blue"
}
```

A similar function was also added to `CharSequence` : 

```
val mixedColor = colorsText.splitToSequence(regex)
```

## **Serialization 1.3.0-RC** 

`kotlinx.serialization` 1.3.0-RC is here with new JSON serialization capabilities: 

- Java IO streams serialization 

- Property-level control over default values 

- An option to exclude null values from serialization 

- Custom class discriminators in polymorphic serialization 

Learn more in the changelog. 

2081 

## **What's new in Kotlin 1.5.20** 

## Released: 24 June 2021 

Kotlin 1.5.20 has fixes for issues discovered in the new features of 1.5.0, and it also includes various tooling improvements. 

You can find an overview of the changes in the release blog post and this video: 

## **Watch video online.** 

For information about the Kotlin release cycle, see Kotlin release process. 

## **Kotlin/JVM** 

Kotlin 1.5.20 is receiving the following updates on the JVM platform: 

- String concatenation via invokedynamic 

- 

   - Support for JSpecify nullness annotations 

- Support for calling Java's Lombok-generated methods within modules that have Kotlin and Java code 

## **String concatenation via invokedynamic** 

Kotlin 1.5.20 compiles string concatenations into dynamic invocations ( `invokedynamic` ) on JVM 9+ targets, thereby keeping up with modern Java versions. More precisely, it uses 

`StringConcatFactory.makeConcatWithConstants()` for string concatenation. 

To switch back to concatenation via `StringBuilder.append()` used in previous versions, add the compiler option `-Xstring-concat=inline` . 

Learn how to add compiler options in Gradle, Maven, and the command-line compiler. 

## **Support for JSpecify nullness annotations** 

The Kotlin compiler can read various types of nullability annotations to pass nullability information from Java to Kotlin. Version 1.5.20 introduces support for the JSpecify project, which includes the standard unified set of Java nullness annotations. 

With JSpecify, you can provide more detailed nullability information to help Kotlin keep null-safety interoperating with Java. You can set default nullability for the declaration, package, or module scope, specify parametric nullability, and more. You can find more details about this in the JSpecify user guide. 

Here is the example of how Kotlin can handle JSpecify annotations: 

```
// JavaClass.java
importorg.jspecify.nullness.*;
@NullMarked
publicclassJavaClass{
publicStringnotNullableString(){return"";}
public@NullableStringnullableString(){return"";}
}
```

2082 

```
// Test.kt
funkotlinFun()=with(JavaClass()){
notNullableString().length // OK
nullableString().length    // Warning: receiver nullability mismatch
}
```

In 1.5.20, all nullability mismatches according to the JSpecify-provided nullability information are reported as warnings. Use the `-Xjspecify-annotations=strict` and `-Xtype-enhancement-improvements-strict-mode` compiler options to enable strict mode (with error reporting) when working with JSpecify. Please note that the JSpecify project is under active development. Its API and implementation can change significantly at any time. 

Learn more about null-safety and platform types. 

## **Support for calling Java's Lombok-generated methods within modules that have Kotlin and Java code** 

The Lombok compiler plugin is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

Kotlin 1.5.20 introduces an experimental Lombok compiler plugin. This plugin makes it possible to generate and use Java's Lombok declarations within modules that have Kotlin and Java code. Lombok annotations work only in Java sources and are ignored if you use them in Kotlin code. 

The plugin supports the following annotations: 

- 

   - `@Getter` , `@Setter` 

- 

   - `@NoArgsConstructor` , `@RequiredArgsConstructor` , and `@AllArgsConstructor` 

- 

   - `@Data` 

- 

   - `@With` 

- 

- `@Value` 

We're continuing to work on this plugin. To find out the detailed current state, visit the Lombok compiler plugin's README. 

Currently, we don't have plans to support the `@Builder` annotation. However, we can consider this if you vote for `@Builder` in YouTrack. 

Learn how to configure the Lombok compiler plugin. 

## **Kotlin/Native** 

Kotlin/Native 1.5.20 offers a preview of the new feature and the tooling improvements: 

- Opt-in export of KDoc comments to generated Objective-C headers 

- Compiler bug fixes 

- 

- Improved performance of Array.copyInto() inside one array 

2083 

## **Opt-in export of KDoc comments to generated Objective-C headers** 

The ability to export KDoc comments to generated Objective-C headers is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see the details below), and you should use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

You can now set the Kotlin/Native compiler to export the documentation comments (KDoc) from Kotlin code to the Objective-C frameworks generated from it, making them visible to the frameworks' consumers. 

For example, the following Kotlin code with KDoc: 

```
/**
 * Prints the sum of the arguments.
 * Properly handles the case when the sum doesn't fit in 32-bit integer.
 //
funprintSum(a: Int, b: Int)=println(a.toLong()+ b)
```

produces the following Objective-C headers: 

```
/**
 * Prints the sum of the arguments.
 * Properly handles the case when the sum doesn't fit in 32-bit integer.
 //
+(void)printSumA:(int32_t)a b:(int32_t)b /_attribute/_((swift_name("printSum(a:b:)")));
```

This also works well with Swift. 

To try out this ability to export KDoc comments to Objective-C headers, use the `-Xexport-kdoc` compiler option. Add the following lines to `build.gradle(.kts)` of the Gradle projects you want to export comments from: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
kotlin {
    targets.withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.plugin.mpp.KotlinNativeTarget>{
        compilations.get("main").kotlinOptions.freeCompilerArgs +="-Xexport-kdoc"
}
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
kotlin {
    targets.withType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.plugin.mpp.KotlinNativeTarget){
        compilations.get("main").kotlinOptions.freeCompilerArgs +="-Xexport-kdoc"
}
}
```

We would be very grateful if you would share your feedback with us using this YouTrack ticket. 

## **Compiler bug fixes** 

The Kotlin/Native compiler has received multiple bug fixes in 1.5.20. You can find the complete list in the changelog. 

2084 

There is an important bug fix that affects compatibility: in previous versions, string constants that contained incorrect UTF surrogate pairs were losing their values during compilation. Now such values are preserved. Application developers can safely update to 1.5.20 – nothing will break. However, libraries compiled with 1.5.20 are incompatible with earlier compiler versions. See this YouTrack issue for details. 

## **Improved performance of Array.copyInto() inside one array** 

We've improved the way `Array.copyInto()` works when its source and destination are the same array. Now such operations finish up to 20 times faster (depending on the number of objects being copied) due to memory management optimizations for this use case. 

## **Kotlin/JS** 

With 1.5.20, we're publishing a guide that will help you migrate your projects to the new IR-based backend for Kotlin/JS. 

## **Migration guide for the JS IR backend** 

The new migration guide for the JS IR backend identifies issues you may encounter during migration and provides solutions for them. If you find any issues that aren't covered in the guide, please report them to our issue tracker. 

## **Gradle** 

Kotlin 1.5.20 introduces the following features that can improve the Gradle experience: 

- Caching for annotation processors classloaders in kapt 

- 

Deprecation of the `kotlin.parallel.tasks.in.project` build property 

## **Caching for annotation processors' classloaders in kapt** 

Caching for annotation processors' classloaders in kapt is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

There is now a new experimental feature that makes it possible to cache the classloaders of annotation processors in kapt. This feature can increase the speed of kapt for consecutive Gradle runs. 

To enable this feature, use the following properties in your `gradle.properties` file: 

```
# positive value will enable caching
```

```
# use the same value as the number of modules that use kapt
kapt.classloaders.cache.size=5
```

```
# disable for caching to work
kapt.include.compile.classpath=false
```

Learn more about kapt. 

2085 

## **Deprecation of the kotlin.parallel.tasks.in.project build property** 

`--` With this release, Kotlin parallel compilation is controlled by the Gradle parallel execution flag `parallel` . Using this flag, Gradle executes tasks concurrently, increasing the speed of compiling tasks and utilizing the resources more efficiently. 

You no longer need to use the `kotlin.parallel.tasks.in.project` property. This property has been deprecated and will be removed in the next major release. 

## **Standard library** 

Kotlin 1.5.20 changes the platform-specific implementations of several functions for working with characters and as a result brings unification across platforms: 

- Support for all Unicode digits in Char.digitToInt() for Kotlin/Native and Kotlin/JS. 

- 

## Unification of Char.isLowerCase()/isUpperCase() implementations across platforms. 

## **Support for all Unicode digits in Char.digitToInt() in Kotlin/Native and Kotlin/JS** 

`Char.digitToInt()` returns the numeric value of the decimal digit that the character represents. Before 1.5.20, the function supported all Unicode digit characters only for Kotlin/JVM: implementations on the Native and JS platforms supported only ASCII digits. 

From now, both with Kotlin/Native and Kotlin/JS, you can call `Char.digitToInt()` on any Unicode digit character and get its numeric representation. 

```
funmain(){
```

```
val ten ='\u0661'.digitToInt()+'\u0039'.digitToInt()// ARABIC-INDIC DIGIT ONE + DIGIT NINE
println(ten)
}
```

## **Unification of Char.isLowerCase()/isUpperCase() implementations across platforms** 

The functions `Char.isUpperCase()` and `Char.isLowerCase()` return a boolean value depending on the case of the character. For Kotlin/JVM, the implementation checks both the `General_Category` and the `Other_Uppercase` / `Other_Lowercase` Unicode properties. 

Prior to 1.5.20, implementations for other platforms worked differently and considered only the general category. 

In 1.5.20, implementations are unified across platforms and use both properties to determine the character case: 

**`fun`** `main() {` **`val`** `latinCapitalA =` **`'A'`** `// has "Lu" general category` **`val`** `circledLatinCapitalA =` **`'`** Ⓐ **`'`** `// has "Other_Uppercase" property println(latinCapitalA.isUpperCase() /& circledLatinCapitalA.isUpperCase()) }` 

## **What's new in Kotlin 1.5.0** 

## Released: 5 May 2021 

Kotlin 1.5.0 introduces new language features, stable IR-based JVM compiler backend, performance improvements, and evolutionary changes such as stabilizing experimental features and deprecating outdated ones. 

2086 

You can also find an overview of the changes in the release blog post. 

For information about the Kotlin release cycle, see Kotlin release process. 

## **Language features** 

Kotlin 1.5.0 brings stable versions of the new language features presented for preview in 1.4.30: 

- JVM records support 

- 

   - Sealed interfaces and sealed class improvements 

- 

- Inline classes 

Detailed descriptions of these features are available in this blog post and the corresponding pages of Kotlin documentation. 

## **JVM records support** 

Java is evolving fast, and to make sure Kotlin remains interoperable with it, we've introduced support for one of its latest features – record classes. 

Kotlin's support for JVM records includes bidirectional interoperability: 

- In Kotlin code, you can use Java record classes like you would use typical classes with properties. 

- To use a Kotlin class as a record in Java code, make it a `data` class and mark it with the `@JvmRecord` annotation. 

```
@JvmRecord
dataclassUser(val name: String,val age: Int)
```

Learn more about using JVM records in Kotlin. 

## **Watch video online.** 

## **Sealed interfaces** 

Kotlin interfaces can now have the `sealed` modifier, which works on interfaces in the same way it works on classes: all implementations of a sealed interface are known at compile time. 

```
sealedinterface Polygon
```

You can rely on that fact, for example, to write exhaustive `when` expressions. 

```
fundraw(polygon: Polygon)=when(polygon){
is Rectangle />// //.
is Triangle />// //.
// else is not needed - all possible implementations are covered
}
```

Additionally, sealed interfaces enable more flexible restricted class hierarchies because a class can directly inherit more than one sealed interface. 

2087 

```
class FilledRectangle: Polygon, Fillable
```

## Learn more about sealed interfaces. 

## **Watch video online.** 

## **Package-wide sealed class hierarchies** 

Sealed classes can now have subclasses in all files of the same compilation unit and the same package. Previously, all subclasses had to appear in the same file. 

Direct subclasses may be top-level or nested inside any number of other named classes, named interfaces, or named objects. 

The subclasses of a sealed class must have a name that is properly qualified – they cannot be local or anonymous objects. 

## Learn more about sealed class hierarchies. 

## **Inline classes** 

Inline classes are a subset of value-based classes that only hold values. You can use them as wrappers for a value of a certain type without the additional overhead that comes from using memory allocations. 

Inline classes can be declared with the `value` modifier before the name of the class: 

```
value classPassword(val s: String)
```

The JVM backend also requires a special `@JvmInline` annotation: 

## **`@JvmInline`** 

```
value classPassword(val s: String)
```

The `inline` modifier is now deprecated with a warning. 

## Learn more about inline classes. 

## **Watch video online.** 

## **Kotlin/JVM** 

Kotlin/JVM has received a number of improvements, both internal and user-facing. Here are the most notable among them: 

- Stable JVM IR backend 

- New default JVM target: 1.8 

- 

   - SAM adapters via invokedynamic 

- Lambdas via invokedynamic 

- Deprecation of @JvmDefault and old Xjvm-default modes 

- Improvements to handling nullability annotations 

2088 

## **Stable JVM IR backend** 

The IR-based backend for the Kotlin/JVM compiler is now Stable and enabled by default. 

Starting from Kotlin 1.4.0, early versions of the IR-based backend were available for preview, and it has now become the default for language version `1.5` . The old backend is still used by default for earlier language versions. 

You can find more details about the benefits of the IR backend and its future development in this blog post. 

If you need to use the old backend in Kotlin 1.5.0, you can add the following lines to the project's configuration file: 

- 

- In Gradle: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
tasks.withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinJvmCompile>{
  kotlinOptions.useOldBackend =true
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
tasks.withType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinJvmCompile){
 kotlinOptions.useOldBackend =true
}
```

- In Maven: 

```
<configuration>
<args>
<arg-Xuse-old-backend//arg>
//args>
//configuration>
```

## **New default JVM target: 1.8** 

The default target version for Kotlin/JVM compilations is now `1.8` . The `1.6` target is deprecated. 

If you need a build for JVM 1.6, you can still switch to this target. Learn how: 

- in Gradle 

- 

   - in Maven 

- 

- in the command-line compiler 

## **SAM adapters via invokedynamic** 

Kotlin 1.5.0 now uses dynamic invocations ( `invokedynamic` ) for compiling SAM (Single Abstract Method) conversions: 

- Over any expression if the SAM type is a Java interface 

- Over lambda if the SAM type is a Kotlin functional interface 

2089 

The new implementation uses `LambdaMetafactory.metafactory()` and auxiliary wrapper classes are no longer generated during compilation. This decreases the size of the application's JAR, which improves the JVM startup performance. 

`-` To roll back to the old implementation scheme based on anonymous class generation, add the compiler option `Xsam-conversions=class` . 

Learn how to add compiler options in Gradle, Maven, and the command-line compiler. 

## **Lambdas via invokedynamic** 

- Compiling plain Kotlin lambdas into invokedynamic is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Opt-in is required (see details below), and you should use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate hearing your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

Kotlin 1.5.0 is introducing experimental support for compiling plain Kotlin lambdas (which are not converted to an instance of a functional interface) into dynamic invocations ( `invokedynamic` ). The implementation produces lighter binaries by using `LambdaMetafactory.metafactory()` , which effectively generates the necessary classes at runtime. Currently, it has three limitations compared to ordinary lambda compilation: 

- 

   - A lambda compiled into invokedynamic is not serializable. 

- 

   - Calling `toString()` on such a lambda produces a less readable string representation. 

- 

- Experimental `reflect` API does not support lambdas created with `LambdaMetafactory` . 

To try this feature, add the `-Xlambdas=indy` compiler option. We would be grateful if you could share your feedback on it using this YouTrack ticket. 

Learn how to add compiler options in Gradle, Maven, and command-line compiler. 

## **Deprecation of @JvmDefault and old Xjvm-default modes** 

Prior to Kotlin 1.4.0, there was the `@JvmDefault` annotation along with `-Xjvm-default=enable` and `-Xjvmdefault=compatibility` modes. They served to create the JVM default method for any particular non-abstract member in the Kotlin interface. 

In Kotlin 1.4.0, we introduced the new `Xjvm-default` modes, which switch on default method generation for the whole project. 

In Kotlin 1.5.0, we are deprecating `@JvmDefault` and the old Xjvm-default modes: `-Xjvm-default=enable` and `-Xjvm-default=compatibility` . 

Learn more about default methods in the Java interop. 

## **Improvements to handling nullability annotations** 

Kotlin supports handling type nullability information from Java with nullability annotations. Kotlin 1.5.0 introduces a number of improvements for the feature: 

- It reads nullability annotations on type arguments in compiled Java libraries that are used as dependencies. 

- It supports nullability annotations with the `TYPE_USE` target for: 

   - 

- Arrays 

2090 

- Varargs 

- Fields 

- 

   - Type parameters and their bounds 

- 

   - Type arguments of base classes and interfaces 

- If a nullability annotation has multiple targets applicable to a type, and one of these targets is `TYPE_USE` , then `TYPE_USE` is preferred. For example, the method signature `@Nullable String[] f()` becomes `fun f():` 

- `Array<String?>!` if `@Nullable` supports both `TYPE_USE` and `METHOD` as targets. 

For these newly supported cases, using the wrong type nullability when calling Java from Kotlin produces warnings. Use the `-Xtype-enhancement-improvements-strict-mode` compiler option to enable strict mode for these cases (with error reporting). 

Learn more about null-safety and platform types. 

## **Kotlin/Native** 

Kotlin/Native is now more performant and stable. The notable changes are: 

- Performance improvements 

- 

- Deactivation of the memory leak checker 

## **Performance improvements** 

In 1.5.0, Kotlin/Native is receiving a set of performance improvements that speed up both compilation and execution. 

Compiler caches are now supported in debug mode for `linuxX64` (only on Linux hosts) and `iosArm64` targets. With compiler caches enabled, most debug compilations complete much faster, except for the first one. Measurements showed about a 200% speed increase on our test projects. 

To use compiler caches for new targets, opt in by adding the following lines to the project's `gradle.properties` : 

- 

   - For `linuxX64` : `kotlin.native.cacheKind.linuxX64=static` 

- 

- For `iosArm64` : `kotlin.native.cacheKind.iosArm64=static` 

If you encounter any issues after enabling the compiler caches, please report them to our issue tracker YouTrack. 

Other improvements speed up the execution of Kotlin/Native code: 

- Trivial property accessors are inlined. 

- `trimIndent()` on string literals is evaluated during the compilation. 

## **Deactivation of the memory leak checker** 

The built-in Kotlin/Native memory leak checker has been disabled by default. 

It was initially designed for internal use, and it is able to find leaks only in a limited number of cases, not all of them. Moreover, it later turned out to have issues that can cause application crashes. So we've decided to turn off the memory leak checker. 

The memory leak checker can still be useful for certain cases, for example, unit testing. For these cases, you can enable it by adding the following line of code: 

2091 

```
Platform.isMemoryLeakCheckerActive =true
```

Note that enabling the checker for the application runtime is not recommended. 

## **Kotlin/JS** 

Kotlin/JS is receiving evolutionary changes in 1.5.0. We're continuing our work on moving the JS IR compiler backend towards stable and shipping other updates: 

- Upgrade of webpack to version 5 

- 

- Frameworks and libraries for the IR compiler 

## **Upgrade to webpack 5** 

The Kotlin/JS Gradle plugin now uses webpack 5 for browser targets instead of webpack 4. This is a major webpack upgrade that brings incompatible changes. If you're using a custom webpack configuration, be sure to check the webpack 5 release notes. 

Learn more about bundling Kotlin/JS projects with webpack. 

## **Frameworks and libraries for the IR compiler** 

The Kotlin/JS IR compiler is in Alpha. It may change incompatibly and require manual migration in the future. We would appreciate your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

Along with working on the IR-based backend for Kotlin/JS compiler, we encourage and help library authors to build their projects in `both` mode. This means they are able to produce artifacts for both Kotlin/JS compilers, therefore growing the ecosystem for the new compiler. 

Many well-known frameworks and libraries are already available for the IR backend: KVision, fritz2, doodle, and others. If you're using them in your project, you can already build it with the IR backend and see the benefits it brings. 

If you're writing your own library, compile it in the 'both' mode so that your clients can also use it with the new compiler. 

## **Kotlin Multiplatform** 

In Kotlin 1.5.0, choosing a testing dependency for each platform has been simplified and it is now done automatically by the Gradle plugin. 

A new API for getting a char category is now available in multiplatform projects. 

## **Standard library** 

The standard library has received a range of changes and improvements, from stabilizing experimental parts to adding new features: 

- 

   - Stable unsigned integer types 

- 

- Stable locale-agnostic API for uppercase/lowercase text 

2092 

- Stable Char-to-integer conversion API 

- Stable Path API 

- 

## Floored division and the mod operator 

- 

   - Duration API changes 

- New API for getting a char category now available in multiplatform code 

- New collections function firstNotNullOf() 

- Strict version of String?.toBoolean() 

You can learn more about the standard library changes in this blog post. 

## **Watch video online.** 

## **Stable unsigned integer types** 

The `UInt` , `ULong` , `UByte` , `UShort` unsigned integer types are now Stable. The same goes for operations on these types, ranges, and progressions of them. Unsigned arrays and operations on them remain in Beta. 

Learn more about unsigned integer types. 

## **Stable locale-agnostic API for upper/lowercasing text** 

This release brings a new locale-agnostic API for uppercase/lowercase text conversion. It provides an alternative to the `toLowerCase()` , `toUpperCase()` , `capitalize()` , and `decapitalize()` API functions, which are localesensitive. The new API helps you avoid errors due to different locale settings. 

Kotlin 1.5.0 provides the following fully Stable alternatives: 

- For `String` functions: 

**Earlier versions 1.5.0 alternative** 

```
String.toUpperCase()String.uppercase()
```

```
String.toLowerCase()String.lowercase()
```

```
String.capitalize()String.replaceFirstChar { it.uppercase() }
```

```
String.decapitalize()String.replaceFirstChar { it.lowercase() }
```

- For `Char` functions: 

**Earlier versions 1.5.0 alternative** 

```
Char.toUpperCase()Char.uppercaseChar(): Char
Char.uppercase(): String
```

2093 

**1.5.0 alternative** 

**Earlier versions** 

```
Char.toLowerCase()Char.lowercaseChar(): Char
Char.lowercase(): String
Char.toTitleCase()Char.titlecaseChar(): Char
Char.titlecase(): String
```

For Kotlin/JVM, there are also overloaded `uppercase()` , `lowercase()` , and `titlecase()` functions with an explicit `Locale` parameter. 

The old API functions are marked as deprecated and will be removed in a future release. 

See the full list of changes to the text processing functions in KEEP. 

## **Stable char-to-integer conversion API** 

Starting from Kotlin 1.5.0, new char-to-code and char-to-digit conversion functions are Stable. These functions replace the current API functions, which were often confused with the similar string-to-Int conversion. 

The new API removes this naming confusion, making the code behavior more transparent and unambiguous. 

This release introduces `Char` conversions that are divided into the following sets of clearly named functions: 

- Functions to get the integer code of `Char` and to construct `Char` from the given code: 

```
funChar(code: Int): Char
funChar(code: UShort): Char
val Char.code: Int
```

- Functions to convert `Char` to the numeric value of the digit it represents: 

```
fun Char.digitToInt(radix: Int): Int
fun Char.digitToIntOrNull(radix: Int): Int?
```

- An extension function for `Int` to convert the non-negative single digit it represents to the corresponding `Char` representation: 

```
fun Int.digitToChar(radix: Int): Char
```

The old conversion APIs, including `Number.toChar()` with its implementations (all except `Int.toChar()` ) and `Char` extensions for conversion to a numeric type, like `Char.toInt()` , are now deprecated. 

Learn more about the char-to-integer conversion API in KEEP. 

## **Stable Path API** 

The experimental Path API with extensions for `java.nio.file.Path` is now Stable. 

2094 

```
// list files in a directory
val kotlinFiles: List<Path>=Path("/home/user").listDirectoryEntries("*.kt")
```

## Learn more about the Path API. 

## **Floored division and the mod operator** 

New operations for modular arithmetics have been added to the standard library: 

- 

   - `floorDiv()` returns the result of floored division. It is available for integer types. 

- 

- `mod()` returns the remainder of floored division (modulus). It is available for all numeric types. 

These operations look quite similar to the existing division of integers and rem() function (or the `%` operator), but they work differently on negative numbers: 

- `a.floorDiv(b)` differs from a regular `/` in that `floorDiv` rounds the result down (towards the lesser 

- integer), whereas `/` truncates the result to the integer closer to 0. 

- `a.mod(b)` is the difference between `a` and `a.floorDiv(b) * b` . It's either zero or has the same sign as `b` , 

- while `a % b` can have a different one. 

```
funmain(){
println("Floored division -5/3: ${(-5).floorDiv(3)}")
println("Modulus: ${(-5).mod(3)}")
println("Truncated division -5/3: ${-5/3}")
println("Remainder: ${-5%3}")
}
```

## **Duration API changes** 

The Duration API is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. Use it only for evaluation purposes. We would appreciate hearing your feedback on it in YouTrack. 

There is an experimental Duration class for representing duration amounts in different time units. In 1.5.0, the Duration API has received the following changes: 

- 

   - Internal value representation now uses `Long` instead of `Double` to provide better precision. 

- There is a new API for conversion to a particular time unit in `Long` . It comes to replace the old API, which operates with `Double` values and is now deprecated. For example, `Duration.inWholeMinutes` returns the value of the duration expressed as `Long` and replaces `Duration.inMinutes` . 

- There are new companion functions for constructing a `Duration` from a number. For example, `Duration.seconds(Int)` creates a `Duration` object representing an integer number of seconds. Old 

- extension properties like `Int.seconds` are now deprecated. 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration
import kotlin.time.ExperimentalTime
```

```
@ExperimentalTime
funmain(){
val duration = Duration.milliseconds(120000)
```

```
println("There are ${duration.inWholeSeconds} seconds in ${duration.inWholeMinutes} minutes")
}
```

2095 

## **New API for getting a char category now available in multiplatform code** 

Kotlin 1.5.0 introduces the new API for getting a character's category according to Unicode in multiplatform projects. Several functions are now available in all the platforms and in the common code. 

Functions for checking whether a char is a letter or a digit: 

- 

## `Char.isDigit()` 

- 

## `Char.isLetter()` 

- 

## `Char.isLetterOrDigit()` 

```
funmain(){
val chars =listOf('a','1','+')
val(letterOrDigitList, notLetterOrDigitList)= chars.partition{ it.isLetterOrDigit()}
println(letterOrDigitList)// [a, 1]
println(notLetterOrDigitList)// [+]
}
```

Functions for checking the case of a char: 

- `Char.isLowerCase()` 

- 

## `Char.isUpperCase()` 

- 

- `Char.isTitleCase()` 

**`fun`** `main() {` **`val`** `chars = listOf(` **`'` ǅ** **`'`** `,` **`'` ǈ** **`'`** `,` **`'` ǋ** **`'`** `,` **`'` ǲ** **`'`** `,` **`'1'`** `,` **`'A'`** `,` **`'a'`** `,` **`'+'`** `)` **`val`** `(titleCases, notTitleCases) = chars.partition { it.isTitleCase() } println(titleCases) // [` ǅ `,` ǈ `,` ǋ `,` ǲ `] println(notTitleCases) // [1, A, a, +] }` 

Some other functions: 

- 

## `Char.isDefined()` 

- 

## `Char.isISOControl()` 

The property `Char.category` and its return type enum class `CharCategory` , which indicates a char's general category according to Unicode, are now also available in multiplatform projects. 

## Learn more about characters. 

## **New collections function firstNotNullOf()** 

The new `firstNotNullOf()` and `firstNotNullOfOrNull()` functions combine `mapNotNull()` with `first()` or `firstOrNull()` . They map the original collection with the custom selector function and return the first nonnull value. If there is no such value, `firstNotNullOf()` throws an exception, and `firstNotNullOfOrNull()` returns null. 

```
funmain(){
valdata=listOf("Kotlin","1.5")
println(data.firstNotNullOf(String/:toDoubleOrNull))
println(data.firstNotNullOfOrNull(String/:toIntOrNull))
}
```

2096 

## **Strict version of String?.toBoolean()** 

Two new functions introduce case-sensitive strict versions of the existing String?.toBoolean(): 

- `String.toBooleanStrict()` throws an exception for all inputs except the literals `true` and `false` . 

- `String.toBooleanStrictOrNull()` returns null for all inputs except the literals `true` and `false` . 

```
funmain(){
println("true".toBooleanStrict())
println("1".toBooleanStrictOrNull())
// println("1".toBooleanStrict()) // Exception
}
```

## **kotlin-test library** 

The kotlin-test library introduces some new features: 

- Simplified test dependencies usage in multiplatform projects 

- Automatic selection of a testing framework for Kotlin/JVM source sets 

- 

- Assertion function updates 

## **Simplified test dependencies usage in multiplatform projects** 

Now you can use the `kotlin-test` dependency to add dependencies for testing in the `commonTest` source set, and the Gradle plugin will infer the corresponding platform dependencies for each test source set: 

- `kotlin-test-junit` for JVM source sets, see automatic choice of a testing framework for Kotlin/JVM source 

- sets 

- `kotlin-test-js` for Kotlin/JS source sets 

- `kotlin-test-common` and `kotlin-test-annotations-common` for common source sets 

- No extra artifact for Kotlin/Native source sets 

Additionally, you can use the `kotlin-test` dependency in any shared or platform-specific source set. 

An existing kotlin-test setup with explicit dependencies will continue to work both in Gradle and in Maven. 

Learn more about setting dependencies on test libraries. 

## **Automatic selection of a testing framework for Kotlin/JVM source sets** 

The Gradle plugin now chooses and adds a dependency on a testing framework automatically. All you need to do is add the dependency `kotlin-test` in the common source set. 

Gradle uses JUnit 4 by default. Therefore, the `kotlin("test")` dependency resolves to the variant for JUnit 4, namely `kotlin-test-junit` : 

2097 

## **Kotlin** 

```
kotlin {
    sourceSets {
val commonTest by getting {
            dependencies {
implementation(kotlin("test"))// This brings the dependency
// on JUnit 4 transitively
}
}
}
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
kotlin {
    sourceSets {
        commonTest {
            dependencies {
                implementation kotlin("test")// This brings the dependency
// on JUnit 4 transitively
}
}
}
}
```

You can choose JUnit 5 or TestNG by calling `useJUnitPlatform()` or `useTestNG()` in the test task: 

```
tasks {
    test {
// enable TestNG support
useTestNG()
// or
// enable JUnit Platform (a.k.a. JUnit 5) support
useJUnitPlatform()
}
}
```

You can disable automatic testing framework selection by adding the line `kotlin.test.infer.jvm.variant=false` to the project's `gradle.properties` . 

Learn more about setting dependencies on test libraries. 

## **Assertion function updates** 

This release brings new assertion functions and improves the existing ones. 

The `kotlin-test` library now has the following features: 

## • **Checking the type of a value** 

You can use the new `assertIs<T>` and `assertIsNot<T>` to check the type of a value: 

2098 

```
@Test
funtestFunction(){
val s: Any ="test"
    assertIs<String>(s)// throws AssertionError mentioning the actual type of s if the assertion
fails
// can now print s.length because of contract in assertIs
println("${s.length}")
}
```

Because of type erasure, this assert function only checks whether the `value` is of the `List` type in the following example and doesn't check whether it's a list of the particular `String` element type: `assertIs<List<String>>(value)` . 

## • **Comparing the container content for arrays, sequences, and arbitrary iterables** 

There is a new set of overloaded `assertContentEquals()` functions for comparing content for different collections that don't implement structural equality: 

```
@Test
funtest(){
val expectedArray =arrayOf(1,2,3)
val actualArray =Array(3){ it +1}
assertContentEquals(expectedArray, actualArray)
}
```

## • 

## **New overloads to** **`assertEquals()` and** **`assertNotEquals()` for** **`Double` and** **`Float` numbers** 

There are new overloads for the `assertEquals()` function that make it possible to compare two `Double` or `Float` numbers with absolute precision. The precision value is specified as the third parameter of the function: 

```
@Test
funtest(){
val x =sin(PI)
// precision parameter
val tolerance =0.000001
assertEquals(0.0, x, tolerance)
}
```

## • 

## **New functions for checking the content of collections and elements** 

You can now check whether the collection or element contains something with the `assertContains()` function. You can use it with Kotlin collections and elements that have the `contains()` operator, such as `IntRange` , `String` , and others: 

```
@Test
funtest(){
val sampleList = listOf<String>("sample","sample2")
val sampleString ="sample"
assertContains(sampleList, sampleString)// element in collection
assertContains(sampleString,"amp")// substring in string
}
```

- **`assertTrue()` ,** **`assertFalse()` ,** **`expect()` functions are now inline** 

From now on, you can use these as inline functions, so it's possible to call suspend functions inside a lambda expression: 

2099 

```
@Test
funtest()= runBlocking<Unit>{
val deferred = async {"Kotlin is nice"}
assertTrue("Kotlin substring should be present"){
        deferred.await().contains("Kotlin")
}
}
```

## **kotlinx libraries** 

Along with Kotlin 1.5.0, we are releasing new versions of the kotlinx libraries: 

- `kotlinx.coroutines` 1.5.0-RC 

- `kotlinx.serialization` 1.2.1 

- `kotlinx-datetime` 0.2.0 

## **Coroutines 1.5.0-RC** 

`kotlinx.coroutines` 1.5.0-RC is here with: 

- 

   - New channels API 

- 

   - Stable reactive integrations 

- 

- And more 

Starting with Kotlin 1.5.0, experimental coroutines are disabled and the `-Xcoroutines=experimental` flag is no longer supported. 

Learn more in the changelog and the `kotlinx.coroutines` 1.5.0 release blog post. 

## **Watch video online.** 

## **Serialization 1.2.1** 

`kotlinx.serialization` 1.2.1 is here with: 

- 

   - Improvements to JSON serialization performance 

- Support for multiple names in JSON serialization 

- Experimental .proto schema generation from `@Serializable` classes 

- And more 

Learn more in the changelog and the `kotlinx.serialization` 1.2.1 release blog post. 

## **Watch video online.** 

## **dateTime 0.2.0** 

`kotlinx-datetime` 0.2.0 is here with: 

- 

   - `@Serializable` Datetime objects 

- Normalized API of `DateTimePeriod` and `DatePeriod` 

2100 

