You must declare parameter and return types either in the lambda expression or as a function type. Otherwise, the compiler won't be able to know what type your lambda expression is. 

For example, the following won't work: 

```
val upperCaseString = { str -> str.uppercase() }
```

## **Return from a function** 

Lambda expressions can be returned from a function. So that the compiler understands what type the lambda expression returned is, you must declare a function type. 

In the following example, the `toSeconds()` function has function type `(Int) -> Int` because it always returns a lambda expression that takes a parameter of type `Int` and returns an `Int` value. 

This example uses a `when` expression to determine which lambda expression is returned when `toSeconds()` is called: 

```
funtoSeconds(time: String):(Int)/> Int =when(time){
"hour"/>{ value /> value *60*60}
"minute"/>{ value /> value *60}
"second"/>{ value /> value }
else/>{ value /> value }
}
funmain(){
val timesInMinutes =listOf(2,10,15,1)
val min2sec =toSeconds("minute")
val totalTimeInSeconds = timesInMinutes.map(min2sec).sum()
println("Total time is $totalTimeInSeconds secs")
// Total time is 1680 secs
}
```

## **Invoke separately** 

Lambda expressions can be invoked on their own by adding parentheses `()` after the curly braces `{}` and including any parameters within the parentheses: 

```
funmain(){
println({ text: String /> text.uppercase()}("hello"))
// HELLO
//sampleEnd
}
```

## **Trailing lambdas** 

As you have already seen, if a lambda expression is the only function parameter, you can drop the function parentheses `()` . If a lambda expression is passed as the last parameter of a function, then the expression can be written outside the function parentheses `()` . In both cases, this syntax is called a **trailing lambda** . 

For example, the `.fold()` function accepts an initial value and an operation: 

101 

```
funmain(){
// The initial value is zero.
// The operation sums the initial value with every item in the list cumulatively.
println(listOf(1,2,3).fold(0,{ x, item /> x + item }))// 6
// Alternatively, in the form of a trailing lambda
println(listOf(1,2,3).fold(0){ x, item /> x + item })// 6
//sampleEnd
}
```

For more information on lambda expressions, see Lambda expressions and anonymous functions. 

The next step in our tour is to learn about classes in Kotlin. 

## **Lambda expressions practice** 

## **Exercise 1** 

You have a list of actions supported by a web service, a common prefix for all requests, and an ID of a particular resource. To request an action `title` over the resource with ID: 5, you need to create the following URL: 

`https://example.com/book-info/5/title` . Use a lambda expression to create a list of URLs from the list of actions. 

```
funmain(){
val actions =listOf("title","year","author")
val prefix ="https://example.com/book-info"
val id =5
val urls =// Write your code here
println(urls)
}
```

```
funmain(){
val actions =listOf("title","year","author")
val prefix ="https://example.com/book-info"
val id =5
val urls = actions.map{ action />"$prefix/$id/$action"}
println(urls)
}
```

## **Exercise 2** 

Write a function that takes an `Int` value and an action (a function with type `() -> Unit` ) which then repeats the action the given number of times. Then use this function to print “Hello” 5 times. 

```
funrepeatN(n: Int, action:()/> Unit){
// Write your code here
}
funmain(){
// Write your code here
}
```

102 

```
funrepeatN(n: Int, action:()/> Unit){
for(i in1/.n){
action()
}
}
funmain(){
repeatN(5){
println("Hello")
}
}
```

## **Next step** 

Classes 

## **Classes** 

Kotlin supports object-oriented programming with classes and objects. Objects are useful for storing data in your program. Classes allow you to declare a set of characteristics for an object. When you create objects from a class, you can save time and effort because you don't have to declare these characteristics every time. 

To declare a class, use the `class` keyword: 

```
class Customer
```

## **Properties** 

Characteristics of a class's object can be declared in properties. You can declare properties for a class: 

- Within parentheses `()` after the class name. 

```
classContact(val id: Int,var email: String)
```

- Within the class body defined by curly braces `{}` . 

```
classContact(val id: Int,var email: String){
val category: String =""
}
```

We recommend that you declare properties as read-only ( `val` ) unless they need to be changed after an instance of the class is created. 

You can declare properties without `val` or `var` within parentheses but these properties are not accessible after an instance has been created. 

- The content contained within parentheses `()` is called the **class header** . 

- You can use a trailing comma when declaring class properties. 

Just like with function parameters, class properties can have default values: 

103 

```
classContact(val id: Int,var email: String ="example@gmail.com"){
val category: String ="work"
}
```

## **Create instance** 

To create an object from a class, you declare a class **instance** using a **constructor** . 

By default, Kotlin automatically creates a constructor with the parameters declared in the class header. 

For example: 

```
classContact(val id: Int,var email: String)
funmain(){
val contact =Contact(1,"mary@gmail.com")
}
```

In the example: 

- `Contact` is a class. 

- `contact` is an instance of the `Contact` class. 

- `id` and `email` are properties. 

- `id` and `email` are used with the default constructor to create `contact` . 

Kotlin classes can have many constructors, including ones that you define yourself. To learn more about how to declare multiple constructors, see Constructors. 

## **Access properties** 

To access a property of an instance, write the name of the property after the instance name appended with a period `.` : 

```
classContact(val id: Int,var email: String)
funmain(){
val contact =Contact(1,"mary@gmail.com")
// Prints the value of the property: email
println(contact.email)
// mary@gmail.com
// Updates the value of the property: email
    contact.email ="jane@gmail.com"
// Prints the new value of the property: email
println(contact.email)
// jane@gmail.com
}
```

104 

To concatenate the value of a property as part of a string, you can use string templates ( `$` ). For example: 

```
println("Their email address is: ${contact.email}")
```

## **Member functions** 

In addition to declaring properties as part of an object's characteristics, you can also define an object's behavior with member functions. 

In Kotlin, member functions must be declared within the class body. To call a member function on an instance, write the function name after the instance name appended with a period `.` . For example: 

```
classContact(val id: Int,var email: String){
funprintId(){
println(id)
}
}
funmain(){
val contact =Contact(1,"mary@gmail.com")
// Calls member function printId()
    contact.printId()
// 1
}
```

## **Data classes** 

Kotlin has **data classes** which are particularly useful for storing data. Data classes have the same functionality as classes, but they come automatically with additional member functions. These member functions allow you to easily print the instance to readable output, compare instances of a class, copy instances, and more. As these functions are automatically available, you don't have to spend time writing the same boilerplate code for each of your classes. 

To declare a data class, use the keyword `data` : 

```
dataclassUser(val name: String,val id: Int)
```

The most useful predefined member functions of data classes are: 

## **Function Description** 

`toString()` Prints a readable string of the class instance and its properties. 

`equals()` or `==` Compares instances of a class. 

`copy()` Creates a class instance by copying another, potentially with some different properties. 

See the following sections for examples of how to use each function: 

- Print as string 

105 

- Compare instances 

- Copy instance 

## **Print as string** 

To print a readable string of a class instance, you can explicitly call the `toString()` function, or use print functions ( `println()` and `print()` ) which automatically call `toString()` for you: 

```
dataclassUser(val name: String,val id: Int)
funmain(){
val user =User("Alex",1)
// Automatically uses toString() function so that output is easy to read
println(user)
// User(name=Alex, id=1)
//sampleEnd
}
```

This is particularly useful when debugging or creating logs. 

## **Compare instances** 

To compare data class instances, use the equality operator `==` : 

```
dataclassUser(val name: String,val id: Int)
funmain(){
val user =User("Alex",1)
val secondUser =User("Alex",1)
val thirdUser =User("Max",2)
// Compares user to second user
println("user /= secondUser: ${user /= secondUser}")
// user /= secondUser: true
// Compares user to third user
println("user /= thirdUser: ${user /= thirdUser}")
// user /= thirdUser: false
//sampleEnd
}
```

## **Copy instance** 

To create an exact copy of a data class instance, call the `copy()` function on the instance. 

To create a copy of a data class instance **and** change some properties, call the `copy()` function on the instance **and** add replacement values for properties as function parameters. 

For example: 

106 

```
dataclassUser(val name: String,val id: Int)
funmain(){
val user =User("Alex",1)
// Creates an exact copy of user
println(user.copy())
// User(name=Alex, id=1)
// Creates a copy of user with name: "Max"
println(user.copy("Max"))
// User(name=Max, id=1)
// Creates a copy of user with id: 3
println(user.copy(id =3))
// User(name=Alex, id=3)
//sampleEnd
}
```

Creating a copy of an instance is safer than modifying the original instance because any code that relies on the original instance isn't affected by the copy and what you do with it. 

For more information about data classes, see Data classes. 

The last chapter of this tour is about Kotlin's null safety. 

## **Practice** 

## **Exercise 1** 

Define a data class `Employee` with two properties: one for a name, and another for a salary. Make sure that the property for salary is mutable, otherwise you won't get a salary boost at the end of the year! The main function demonstrates how you can use this data class. 

```
// Write your code here
funmain(){
val emp =Employee("Mary",20)
println(emp)
    emp.salary +=10
println(emp)
}
```

```
dataclassEmployee(val name: String,var salary: Int)
funmain(){
val emp =Employee("Mary",20)
println(emp)
    emp.salary +=10
println(emp)
}
```

## **Exercise 2** 

Declare the additional data classes that are needed for this code to compile. 

107 

```
dataclassPerson(val name: Name,val address: Address,val ownsAPet: Boolean =true)
// Write your code here
// data class Name(//.)
funmain(){
val person =Person(
Name("John","Smith"),
Address("123 Fake Street",City("Springfield","US")),
        ownsAPet =false
)
}
```

```
dataclassPerson(val name: Name,val address: Address,val ownsAPet: Boolean =true)
dataclassName(val first: String,val last: String)
dataclassAddress(val street: String,val city: City)
dataclassCity(val name: String,val countryCode: String)
funmain(){
val person =Person(
Name("John","Smith"),
Address("123 Fake Street",City("Springfield","US")),
        ownsAPet =false
)
}
```

## **Exercise 3** 

To test your code, you need a generator that can create random employees. Define a `RandomEmployeeGenerator` class with a fixed list of potential names (inside the class body). Configure the class with a minimum and maximum salary (inside the class header). In the class body, define the `generateEmployee()` function. Once again, the main function demonstrates how you can use this class. 

In this exercise, you import a package so that you can use the `Random.nextInt()` function. For more information about importing packages, see Packages and imports. 

## Hint 1 

Lists have an extension function called `.random()` that returns a random item within a list. 

## Hint 2 

`Random.nextInt(from = ..., until = ...)` gives you a random `Int` number within specified limits. 

108 

```
import kotlin.random.Random
```

```
dataclassEmployee(val name: String,var salary: Int)
```

```
// Write your code here
```

```
funmain(){
val empGen =RandomEmployeeGenerator(10,30)
println(empGen.generateEmployee())
println(empGen.generateEmployee())
println(empGen.generateEmployee())
    empGen.minSalary =50
    empGen.maxSalary =100
println(empGen.generateEmployee())
}
```

```
import kotlin.random.Random
```

```
dataclassEmployee(val name: String,var salary: Int)
```

```
classRandomEmployeeGenerator(var minSalary: Int,var maxSalary: Int){
val names =listOf("John","Mary","Ann","Paul","Jack","Elizabeth")
fungenerateEmployee()=
Employee(names.random(),
            Random.nextInt(from = minSalary, until = maxSalary))
}
```

```
funmain(){
val empGen =RandomEmployeeGenerator(10,30)
println(empGen.generateEmployee())
println(empGen.generateEmployee())
println(empGen.generateEmployee())
    empGen.minSalary =50
    empGen.maxSalary =100
println(empGen.generateEmployee())
}
```

## **Next step** 

Null safety 

## **Null safety** 

In Kotlin, it's possible to have a `null` value. Kotlin uses `null` values when something is missing or not yet set. You've already seen an example of Kotlin returning a `null` value in the Collections chapter when you tried to access a key-value pair with a key that doesn't exist in the map. Although it's useful to use `null` values in this way, you might run into problems if your code isn't prepared to handle them. 

To help prevent issues with `null` values in your programs, Kotlin has null safety in place. Null safety detects potential problems with `null` values at compile time, rather than at run time. 

Null safety is a combination of features that allow you to: 

- Explicitly declare when `null` values are allowed in your program. 

- Check for `null` values. 

109 

- Use safe calls to properties or functions that may contain `null` values. 

- Declare actions to take if `null` values are detected. 

## **Nullable types** 

Kotlin supports nullable types which allows the possibility for the declared type to have `null` values. By default, a type is **not** allowed to accept `null` values. Nullable types are declared by explicitly adding `?` after the type declaration. 

For example: 

```
funmain(){
// neverNull has String type
var neverNull: String ="This can't be null"
// Throws a compiler error
    neverNull =null
// nullable has nullable String type
var nullable: String?="You can keep a null here"
// This is OK
    nullable =null
// By default, null values aren't accepted
var inferredNonNull ="The compiler assumes non-nullable"
// Throws a compiler error
    inferredNonNull =null
// notNull doesn't accept null values
funstrLength(notNull: String): Int {
return notNull.length
}
println(strLength(neverNull))// 18
println(strLength(nullable))// Throws a compiler error
}
```

`length` is a property of the String class that contains the number of characters within a string. 

## **Check for null values** 

You can check for the presence of `null` values within conditional expressions. In the following example, the `describeString()` function has an `if` statement that checks whether `maybeString` is **not** `null` and if its `length` is greater than zero: 

110 

```
fundescribeString(maybeString: String?): String {
if(maybeString /=null/& maybeString.length >0){
return"String of length ${maybeString.length}"
}else{
return"Empty or null string"
}
}
funmain(){
val nullString: String?=null
println(describeString(nullString))
// Empty or null string
}
```

## **Use safe calls** 

To safely access properties of an object that might contain a `null` value, use the safe call operator `?.` . The safe call operator returns `null` if either the object or one of its accessed properties is `null` . This is useful if you want to avoid the presence of `null` values triggering errors in your code. 

In the following example, the `lengthString()` function uses a safe call to return either the length of the string or `null` : 

```
funlengthString(maybeString: String?): Int?= maybeString.length
funmain(){
val nullString: String?=null
println(lengthString(nullString))
// null
}
```

Safe calls can be chained so that if any property of an object contains a `null` value, then `null` is returned without an error being thrown. For example: 

```
person.company.address.country
```

The safe call operator can also be used to safely call an extension or member function. In this case, a null check is performed before the function is called. If the check detects a `null` value, then the call is skipped and `null` is returned. 

In the following example, `nullString` is `null` so the invocation of `.uppercase()` is skipped and `null` is returned: 

```
funmain(){
val nullString: String?=null
println(nullString.uppercase())
// null
}
```

## **Use Elvis operator** 

You can provide a default value to return if a `null` value is detected by using the **Elvis operator** `?:` . 

111 

Write on the left-hand side of the Elvis operator what should be checked for a `null` value. Write on the righthand side of the Elvis operator what should be returned if a `null` value is detected. 

In the following example, `nullString` is `null` so the safe call to access the `length` property returns a `null` value. As a result, the Elvis operator returns `0` : 

```
funmain(){
val nullString: String?=null
println(nullString.length /:0)
// 0
}
```

For more information about null safety in Kotlin, see Null safety. 

## **Practice** 

## **Exercise** 

You have the `employeeById` function that gives you access to a database of employees of a company. Unfortunately, this function returns a value of the `Employee?` type, so the result can be `null` . Your goal is to write a function that returns the salary of an employee when their `id` is provided, or `0` if the employee is missing from the database. 

```
dataclassEmployee(val name: String,var salary: Int)
funemployeeById(id: Int)=when(id){
1/>Employee("Mary",20)
2/>null
3/>Employee("John",21)
4/>Employee("Ann",23)
else/>null
}
funsalaryById(id: Int)=// Write your code here
funmain(){
println((1/.5).sumOf{ id />salaryById(id)})
}
```

```
dataclassEmployee(val name: String,var salary: Int)
funemployeeById(id: Int)=when(id){
1/>Employee("Mary",20)
2/>null
3/>Employee("John",21)
4/>Employee("Ann",23)
else/>null
}
funsalaryById(id: Int)=employeeById(id).salary /:0
funmain(){
println((1/.5).sumOf{ id />salaryById(id)})
}
```

112 

## **What's next?** 

Congratulations! Now that you have completed the beginner tour, take your understanding of Kotlin to the next level with our intermediate tour: 

**==> picture [455 x 39] intentionally omitted <==**

Start the intermediate Kotlin tour 

## **Intermediate: Extension functions** 

In this chapter, you'll explore special Kotlin functions that make your code more concise and readable. Learn how they can help you use efficient design patterns to take your projects to the next level. 

## **Extension functions** 

In software development, you often need to modify a program's behavior without changing the original source code. For example, you might want to add extra functionality to a class from a third-party library. 

You can do this by adding extension functions to extend a class. You call extension functions the same way you call member functions of a class, using a period `.` . 

Before introducing the complete syntax for extension functions, you need to understand what a **receiver** is. The receiver is what the function is called on. In other words, the receiver is where or with whom the information is shared. 

**==> picture [375 x 75] intentionally omitted <==**

An example of sender and receiver 

In this example, the `main()` function calls the `.first()` function to return the first element in a list. The `.first()` function is called **on** the `readOnlyShapes` variable, so the `readOnlyShapes` variable is the receiver. 

To create an extension function, write the name of the class that you want to extend followed by a `.` and the name of your function. Continue with the rest of the function declaration, including its parameters and return type. 

For example: 

```
fun String.bold(): String ="<b>$this//b>"
funmain(){
// "hello" is the receiver
println("hello".bold())
// <b>hello//b>
}
```

113 

In this example: 

- `String` is the extended class. 

- `bold` is the name of the extension function. 

- The `.bold()` extension function's return type is `String` . 

- `"hello"` , an instance of `String` , as the receiver. 

- The receiver is accessed inside the body by the keyword: `this` . 

- A string template ( `$` ) is used to access the value of `this` . 

- The `.bold()` extension function takes a string and returns it in a `<b>` HTML element for bold text. 

## **Extension-oriented design** 

You can define extension functions anywhere, which enables you to create extension-oriented designs. These designs separate core functionality from useful but non-essential features, making your code easier to read and maintain. 

A good example is the `HttpClient` class from the Ktor library, which helps perform network requests. The core of its functionality is a single function `request()` , which takes all the information needed for an HTTP request: 

```
class HttpClient {
```

```
funrequest(method: String, url: String, headers: Map<String, String>): HttpResponse {
// Network code
}
}
```

In practice, the most popular HTTP requests are GET or POST requests. It makes sense for the library to provide shorter names for these common use cases. However, these don't require writing new network code, only a specific request call. In other words, they are perfect candidates to be defined as separate `.get()` and `.post()` extension functions: 

```
fun HttpClient.get(url: String): HttpResponse =request("GET", url,emptyMap())
fun HttpClient.post(url: String): HttpResponse =request("POST", url,emptyMap())
```

These `.get()` and `.post()` functions extend the `HttpClient` class. They can directly use the `request()` function from the `HttpClient` class because they're called on an instance of the `HttpClient` class as the receiver. You can use these extension functions to call the `request()` function with the appropriate HTTP method, which simplifies your code and makes it easier to understand: 

114 

```
class HttpClient {
funrequest(method: String, url: String, headers: Map<String, String>): HttpResponse {
println("Requesting $method to $url with headers: $headers")
returnHttpResponse("Response from $url")
}
}
fun HttpClient.get(url: String): HttpResponse =request("GET", url,emptyMap())
funmain(){
val client =HttpClient()
// Making a GET request using request() directly
val getResponseWithMember = client.request("GET","https://example.com",emptyMap())
// Making a GET request using the get() extension function
// The client instance is the receiver
val getResponseWithExtension = client.get("https://example.com")
}
```

This extension-oriented approach is widely used in Kotlin's standard library and other libraries. For example, the `String` class has many extension functions to help you work with strings. 

For more information about extension functions, see Extensions. 

## **Practice** 

## **Exercise 1** 

Write an extension function called `isPositive` that takes an integer and checks whether it is positive. 

```
fun Int.// Write your code here
funmain(){
println(1.isPositive())
// true
}
fun Int.isPositive(): Boolean =this>0
funmain(){
println(1.isPositive())
// true
}
```

## **Exercise 2** 

Write an extension function called `toLowercaseString` that takes a string and returns a lowercase version. 

## Hint 

Use the `.lowercase()` function for the `String` type. 

115 

```
fun// Write your code here
funmain(){
println("Hello World!".toLowercaseString())
// hello world!
}
```

```
fun String.toLowercaseString(): String =this.lowercase()
funmain(){
println("Hello World!".toLowercaseString())
// hello world!
}
```

## **Next step** 

Intermediate: Scope functions 

## **Intermediate: Scope functions** 

In this chapter, you'll build on your understanding of extension functions to learn how to use scope functions to write more idiomatic code. 

## **Scope functions** 

In programming, a scope is the area in which your variable or object is recognized. The most commonly referred to scopes are the global scope and the local scope: 

- **Global scope** – a variable or object that is accessible from anywhere in the program. 

- **Local scope** – a variable or object that is only accessible within the block or function where it is defined. 

In Kotlin, there are also scope functions that allow you to create a temporary scope around an object and execute some code. 

Scope functions make your code more concise because you don't have to refer to the name of your object within the temporary scope. Depending on the scope function, you can access the object either by referencing it via the keyword `this` or using it as an argument via the keyword `it` . 

Kotlin has five scope functions in total: `let` , `apply` , `run` , `also` , and `with` . 

Each scope function takes a lambda expression and returns either the object or the result of the lambda expression. In this tour, we explain each scope function and how to use it. 

You can also watch the Back to the Stdlib: Making the Most of Kotlin's Standard Library talk on scope functions by Sebastian Aigner, Kotlin developer advocate. 

## **Let** 

Use the `let` scope function when you want to perform null checks in your code and later perform further actions with the returned object. 

116 

Consider the example: 

```
funsendNotification(recipientAddress: String): String {
println("Yo $recipientAddress!")
return"Notification sent!"
}
fungetNextAddress(): String {
return"sebastian@jetbrains.com"
}
funmain(){
val address: String?=getNextAddress()
sendNotification(address)
}
```

The example has two functions: 

- `sendNotification()` , which has a function parameter `recipientAddress` and returns a string. 

- `getNextAddress()` , which has no function parameters and returns a string. 

The example creates a variable `address` that has a nullable `String` type. But this becomes a problem when you call the `sendNotification()` function because this function doesn't expect that `address` could be a `null` value. The compiler reports an error as a result: 

```
Argument type mismatch: actual type is 'String?', but 'String' was expected.
```

From the beginner tour, you already know that you can perform a null check with an if condition or use the Elvis operator `?:` . But what if you want to use the returned object later in your code? You could achieve this with an if condition **and** an else branch: 

```
funsendNotification(recipientAddress: String): String {
println("Yo $recipientAddress!")
return"Notification sent!"
}
fungetNextAddress(): String {
return"sebastian@jetbrains.com"
}
funmain(){
val address: String?=getNextAddress()
val confirm =if(address /=null){
sendNotification(address)
}else{null}
//sampleEnd
}
```

However, a more concise approach is to use the `let` scope function: 

117 

```
funsendNotification(recipientAddress: String): String {
println("Yo $recipientAddress!")
return"Notification sent!"
}
fungetNextAddress(): String {
return"sebastian@jetbrains.com"
}
funmain(){
val address: String?=getNextAddress()
val confirm = address.let{
sendNotification(it)
}
//sampleEnd
}
```

The example: 

- Creates variables called `address` and `confirm` . 

- Uses a safe call for the `let` scope function on the `address` variable. 

- Creates a temporary scope within the `let` scope function. 

- Passes the `sendNotification()` function as a lambda expression into the `let` scope function. 

- Refers to the `address` variable via `it` , using the temporary scope. 

- Assigns the result to the `confirm` variable. 

With this approach, your code can handle the `address` variable potentially being a `null` value, and you can use the `confirm` variable later in your code. 

## **Apply** 

Use the `apply` scope function to initialize objects, like a class instance, at the time of creation rather than later on in your code. This approach makes your code easier to read and manage. 

Consider the example: 

118 

```
classClient(){
var token: String?=null
funconnect()=println("connected!")
funauthenticate()=println("authenticated!")
fungetData(): String {
println("getting data!")
return"Mock data"
}
}
val client =Client()
funmain(){
    client.token ="asdf"
    client.connect()
// connected!
    client.authenticate()
// authenticated!
    client.getData()
// getting data!
}
```

The example has a `Client` class that contains one property called `token` and three member functions: `connect()` , `authenticate()` , and `getData()` . 

The example creates `client` as an instance of the `Client` class before initializing its `token` property and calling its member functions in the `main()` function. 

Although this example is compact, in the real world, it can be a while before you can configure and use the class instance (and its member functions) after you've created it. However, if you use the `apply` scope function you can create, configure and use member functions on your class instance all in the same place in your code: 

```
classClient(){
var token: String?=null
funconnect()=println("connected!")
funauthenticate()=println("authenticated!")
fungetData(): String {
println("getting data!")
return"Mock data"
}
}
val client =Client().apply{
    token ="asdf"
connect()
// connected!
authenticate()
// authenticated!
}
funmain(){
    client.getData()
// getting data!
}
```

The example: 

- Creates `client` as an instance of the `Client` class. 

- Uses the `apply` scope function on the `client` instance. 

119 

- Creates a temporary scope within the `apply` scope function so that you don't have to explicitly refer to the `client` instance when accessing its properties or functions. 

- Passes a lambda expression to the `apply` scope function that updates the `token` property and calls the `connect()` and `authenticate()` functions. 

- Calls the `getData()` member function on the `client` instance in the `main()` function. 

As you can see, this strategy is convenient when you are working with large pieces of code. 

## **Run** 

Similar to `apply` , you can use the `run` scope function to initialize an object, but it's better to use `run` to initialize an object at a specific moment in your code **and** immediately compute a result. 

Let's continue the previous example for the `apply` function, but this time, you want the `connect()` and `authenticate()` functions to be grouped so that they are called on every request. 

For example: 

```
classClient(){
var token: String?=null
funconnect()=println("connected!")
funauthenticate()=println("authenticated!")
fungetData(): String {
println("getting data!")
return"Mock data"
}
}
val client: Client =Client().apply{
    token ="asdf"
}
funmain(){
val result: String = client.run{
connect()
// connected!
authenticate()
// authenticated!
getData()
// getting data!
}
}
```

The example: 

- Creates `client` as an instance of the `Client` class. 

- Uses the `apply` scope function on the `client` instance. 

- Creates a temporary scope within the `apply` scope function so that you don't have to explicitly refer to the `client` instance when accessing its properties or functions. 

- Passes a lambda expression to the `apply` scope function that updates the `token` property. 

The `main()` function: 

- Creates a `result` variable with type `String` . 

- Uses the `run` scope function on the `client` instance. 

120 

- Creates a temporary scope within the `run` scope function so that you don't have to explicitly refer to the `client` instance when accessing its properties or functions. 

- Passes a lambda expression to the `run` scope function that calls the `connect()` , `authenticate()` , and `getData()` functions. 

- Assigns the result to the `result` variable. 

Now you can use the returned result further in your code. 

## **Also** 

Use the `also` scope function to complete an additional action with an object and then return the object to continue using it in your code, like writing a log. 

Consider the example: 

```
funmain(){
val medals: List<String>=listOf("Gold","Silver","Bronze")
val reversedLongUppercaseMedals: List<String>=
        medals
.map{ it.uppercase()}
.filter{ it.length >4}
.reversed()
println(reversedLongUppercaseMedals)
// [BRONZE, SILVER]
}
```

The example: 

- Creates the `medals` variable that contains a list of strings. 

- Creates the `reversedLongUpperCaseMedals` variable that has the `List<String>` type. 

- Uses the `.map()` extension function on the `medals` variable. 

- Passes a lambda expression to the `.map()` function that refers to `medals` via the `it` keyword and calls the `.uppercase()` extension function on it. 

- Uses the `.filter()` extension function on the `medals` variable. 

- Passes a lambda expression as a predicate to the `.filter()` function that refers to `medals` via the `it` keyword and checks if the item in the list has more than 4 characters. 

- Uses the `.reversed()` extension function on the `medals` variable. 

- Assigns the result to the `reversedLongUpperCaseMedals` variable. 

- Prints the list contained in the `reversedLongUpperCaseMedals` variable. 

It would be useful to add some logging in between the function calls to see what is happening to the `medals` variable. The `also` function helps with that: 

121 

```
funmain(){
val medals: List<String>=listOf("Gold","Silver","Bronze")
val reversedLongUppercaseMedals: List<String>=
        medals
.map{ it.uppercase()}
.also{println(it)}
// [GOLD, SILVER, BRONZE]
.filter{ it.length >4}
.also{println(it)}
// [SILVER, BRONZE]
.reversed()
println(reversedLongUppercaseMedals)
// [BRONZE, SILVER]
}
```

Now the example: 

- Uses the `also` scope function on the `medals` variable. 

- Creates a temporary scope within the `also` scope function so that you don't have to explicitly refer to the `medals` variable when using it as a function parameter. 

- Passes a lambda expression to the `also` scope function that calls the `println()` function using the `medals` variable as a function parameter via the `it` keyword. 

Since the `also` function returns the object, it is useful for not only logging but debugging, chaining multiple operations, and performing other side-effect operations that don't affect the main flow of your code. 

## **With** 

Unlike the other scope functions, `with` is not an extension function, so the syntax is different. You pass the receiver object to `with` as an argument. 

Use the `with` scope function when you want to call multiple functions on an object. 

Consider this example: 

```
class Canvas {
funrect(x: Int, y: Int, w: Int, h: Int): Unit =println("$x, $y, $w, $h")
funcirc(x: Int, y: Int, rad: Int): Unit =println("$x, $y, $rad")
funtext(x: Int, y: Int, str: String): Unit =println("$x, $y, $str")
}
```

```
funmain(){
val mainMonitorPrimaryBufferBackedCanvas =Canvas()
```

```
    mainMonitorPrimaryBufferBackedCanvas.text(10,10,"Foo")
    mainMonitorPrimaryBufferBackedCanvas.rect(20,30,100,50)
    mainMonitorPrimaryBufferBackedCanvas.circ(40,60,25)
    mainMonitorPrimaryBufferBackedCanvas.text(15,45,"Hello")
    mainMonitorPrimaryBufferBackedCanvas.rect(70,80,150,100)
    mainMonitorPrimaryBufferBackedCanvas.circ(90,110,40)
    mainMonitorPrimaryBufferBackedCanvas.text(35,55,"World")
    mainMonitorPrimaryBufferBackedCanvas.rect(120,140,200,75)
    mainMonitorPrimaryBufferBackedCanvas.circ(160,180,55)
    mainMonitorPrimaryBufferBackedCanvas.text(50,70,"Kotlin")
}
```

The example creates a `Canvas` class that has three member functions: `rect()` , `circ()` , and `text()` . Each of these member functions prints a statement constructed from the function parameters that you provide. 

122 

The example creates `mainMonitorPrimaryBufferBackedCanvas` as an instance of the `Canvas` class before calling a sequence of member functions on the instance with different function parameters. 

You can see that this code is hard to read. If you use the `with` function, the code is streamlined: 

```
class Canvas {
funrect(x: Int, y: Int, w: Int, h: Int): Unit =println("$x, $y, $w, $h")
funcirc(x: Int, y: Int, rad: Int): Unit =println("$x, $y, $rad")
funtext(x: Int, y: Int, str: String): Unit =println("$x, $y, $str")
}
funmain(){
val mainMonitorSecondaryBufferBackedCanvas =Canvas()
with(mainMonitorSecondaryBufferBackedCanvas){
text(10,10,"Foo")
rect(20,30,100,50)
circ(40,60,25)
text(15,45,"Hello")
rect(70,80,150,100)
circ(90,110,40)
text(35,55,"World")
rect(120,140,200,75)
circ(160,180,55)
text(50,70,"Kotlin")
}
//sampleEnd
}
```

This example: 

- Uses the `with` scope function with the `mainMonitorSecondaryBufferBackedCanvas` instance as the receiver. 

- Creates a temporary scope within the `with` scope function so that you don't have to explicitly refer to the `mainMonitorSecondaryBufferBackedCanvas` instance when calling its member functions. 

- Passes a lambda expression to the `with` scope function that calls a sequence of member functions with different function parameters. 

Now that this code is much easier to read, you are less likely to make mistakes. 

## **Use case overview** 

This section has covered the different scope functions available in Kotlin and their main use cases for making your code more idiomatic. You can use this table as a quick reference. It's important to note that you don't need a complete understanding of how these functions work in order to use them in your code. 

|Function|Access to<br>`x`|Return value|Use case|
|---|---|---|---|
||via|||
|`let`|`it`|Lambda|Perform null checks in your code and later perform further actions with|
|||result|the returned object.|
|`apply`|`this`|`x`|Initialize objects at the time of creation.|



123 

Function Access to `x` Return value 

Use case 

via 

|`run`|`this`|Lambda|Initialize objects at the time of creation**AND**compute a result.|
|---|---|---|---|
|||result||
|`also`|`it`|`x`|Complete additional actions before returning the object.|
|`with`|`this`|Lambda|Call multiple functions on an object.|
|||result||



For more information about scope functions, see Scope functions. 

## **Practice** 

## **Exercise 1** 

Rewrite the `.getPriceInEuros()` function as a single-expression function that uses safe call operators `?.` and the `let` scope function. 

## Hint 

Use safe call operators `?.` to safely access the `priceInDollars` property from the `getProductInfo()` function. Then, use the `let` scope function to convert the value of `priceInDollars` into euros. 

```
dataclassProductInfo(val priceInDollars: Double?)
class Product {
fungetProductInfo(): ProductInfo?{
returnProductInfo(100.0)
}
}
// Rewrite this function
fun Product.getPriceInEuros(): Double?{
val info =getProductInfo()
if(info /=null)returnnull
val price = info.priceInDollars
if(price /=null)returnnull
returnconvertToEuros(price)
}
funconvertToEuros(dollars: Double): Double {
return dollars *0.85
}
funmain(){
val product =Product()
val priceInEuros = product.getPriceInEuros()
if(priceInEuros /=null){
println("Price in Euros: €$priceInEuros")
// Price in Euros: €85.0
}else{
println("Price information is not available.")
```

124 

```
}
}
```

```
dataclassProductInfo(val priceInDollars: Double?)
```

```
class Product {
fungetProductInfo(): ProductInfo?{
returnProductInfo(100.0)
}
}
```

```
fun Product.getPriceInEuros()=getProductInfo().priceInDollars.let{convertToEuros(it)}
```

```
funconvertToEuros(dollars: Double): Double {
return dollars *0.85
}
funmain(){
val product =Product()
val priceInEuros = product.getPriceInEuros()
if(priceInEuros /=null){
println("Price in Euros: €$priceInEuros")
// Price in Euros: €85.0
}else{
println("Price information is not available.")
}
}
```

## **Exercise 2** 

You have an `updateEmail()` function that updates the email address of a user. Use the `apply` scope function to update the email address and then the `also` scope function to print a log message: `Updating email for user with ID: ${it.id}` . 

```
dataclassUser(val id: Int,var email: String)
```

```
funupdateEmail(user: User, newEmail: String): User =// Write your code here
funmain(){
val user =User(1,"old_email@example.com")
val updatedUser =updateEmail(user,"new_email@example.com")
// Updating email for user with ID: 1
println("Updated User: $updatedUser")
// Updated User: User(id=1, email=new_email@example.com)
}
```

125 

```
dataclassUser(val id: Int,var email: String)
funupdateEmail(user: User, newEmail: String): User = user.apply{
this.email = newEmail
}.also{println("Updating email for user with ID: ${it.id}")}
```

```
funmain(){
val user =User(1,"old_email@example.com")
val updatedUser =updateEmail(user,"new_email@example.com")
// Updating email for user with ID: 1
println("Updated User: $updatedUser")
// Updated User: User(id=1, email=new_email@example.com)
}
```

## **Next step** 

Intermediate: Lambda expressions with receiver 

## **Intermediate: Lambda expressions with receiver** 

In this chapter, you'll learn how to use receivers with another type of function, lambda expressions, and how they can help you create a domain-specific language. 

## **Lambda expressions with receiver** 

In the beginner tour, you learned how to use lambda expressions. Lambda expressions can also have a receiver. In this case, lambda expressions can access any member functions or properties of the receiver without having to explicitly specify the receiver each time. Without these additional references, your code is easier to read and maintain. 

Lambda expressions with receiver are also known as function literals with receiver. 

The syntax for a lambda expression with receiver is different when you define the function type. First, write the receiver that you want to extend. Next, put a `.` and then complete the rest of your function type definition. For example: 

```
MutableList<Int>.()/> Unit
```

This function type has: 

- `MutableList<Int>` as the receiver. 

- No function parameters within the parentheses `()` . 

- No return value: `Unit` . 

Consider this example that draws shapes on a canvas: 

126 

**`class`** `Canvas {` **`fun`** `drawCircle() = println(` **`"`** 🟠 **`Drawing a circle"`** `)` **`fun`** `drawSquare() = println(` **`"`** 🟥 **`Drawing a square"`** `) } // Lambda expression with receiver definition` **`fun`** `render(block: Canvas.() /> Unit): Canvas {` **`val`** `canvas = Canvas() // Use the lambda expression with receiver canvas.block()` **`return`** `canvas }` **`fun`** `main() { render { drawCircle() //` 🟠 `Drawing a circle drawSquare() //` 🟥 `Drawing a square } }` 

In this example: 

- The `Canvas` class has two functions that simulate drawing a circle or a square. 

- The `render()` function takes a `block` parameter and returns an instance of the `Canvas` class. 

- The `block` parameter is a lambda expression with receiver, where the `Canvas` class is the receiver. 

- The `render()` function creates an instance of the `Canvas` class and calls the `block()` lambda expression on the `canvas` instance, using it as the receiver. 

- The `main()` function calls the `render()` function with a lambda expression, which is passed to the `block` parameter. 

- Inside the lambda passed to the `render()` function, the program calls the `drawCircle()` and `drawSquare()` functions on an instance of the `Canvas` class. 

Because the `drawCircle()` and `drawSquare()` functions are called in the lambda expression with receiver, they can be called directly as if they are inside the `Canvas` class. 

Lambda expressions with receiver are helpful when you want to create a domain-specific language (DSL). Since 

you have access to the receiver's member functions and properties without explicitly referencing the receiver, your code becomes leaner. 

To demonstrate this, consider an example that configures items in a menu. Let's begin with a `MenuItem` class and a `Menu` class that contains a function to add items to the menu called `item()` , as well as a list of all menu items `items` : 

```
classMenuItem(val name: String)
classMenu(val name: String){
val items = mutableListOf<MenuItem>()
```

```
funitem(name: String){
        items.add(MenuItem(name))
}
}
```

127 

Let's use a lambda expression with receiver passed as a function parameter ( `init` ) to the `menu()` function that builds a menu as a starting point: 

```
funmenu(name: String,init: Menu.()/> Unit): Menu {
// Creates an instance of the Menu class
val menu =Menu(name)
// Calls the lambda expression with receiver init() on the class instance
    menu.init()
return menu
}
```

Now you can use the DSL to configure a menu and create a `printMenu()` function to print the menu structure to the console: 

```
classMenuItem(val name: String)
classMenu(val name: String){
val items = mutableListOf<MenuItem>()
funitem(name: String){
        items.add(MenuItem(name))
}
}
funmenu(name: String,init: Menu.()/> Unit): Menu {
val menu =Menu(name)
    menu.init()
return menu
}
funprintMenu(menu: Menu){
println("Menu: ${menu.name}")
    menu.items.forEach{println("  Item: ${it.name}")}
}
// Use the DSL
funmain(){
// Create the menu
val mainMenu =menu("Main Menu"){
// Add items to the menu
item("Home")
item("Settings")
item("Exit")
}
// Print the menu
printMenu(mainMenu)
// Menu: Main Menu
//   Item: Home
//   Item: Settings
//   Item: Exit
}
```

As you can see, using a lambda expression with receiver greatly simplifies the code needed to create your menu. Lambda expressions are not only useful for setup and creation but also for configuration. They are commonly used in building DSLs for APIs, UI frameworks, and configuration builders to produce streamlined code, allowing you to focus more easily on the underlying code structure and logic. 

Kotlin's ecosystem has many examples of this design pattern, such as in the `buildList()` and `buildString()` functions from the standard library. 

128 

Lambda expressions with receivers can be combined with **type-safe builders** in Kotlin to make DSLs that detect any problems with types at compile time rather than at runtime. To learn more, see Type-safe builders. 

## **Practice** 

## **Exercise 1** 

You have a `fetchData()` function that accepts a lambda expression with receiver. Update the lambda expression to use the `append()` function so that the output of your code is: `Data received - Processed` . 

```
funfetchData(callback: StringBuilder.()/> Unit){
val builder =StringBuilder("Data received")
    builder.callback()
}
funmain(){
    fetchData {
// Write your code here
// Data received - Processed
}
}
```

```
funfetchData(callback: StringBuilder.()/> Unit){
val builder =StringBuilder("Data received")
    builder.callback()
}
funmain(){
    fetchData {
append(" - Processed")
println(this.toString())
// Data received - Processed
}
}
```

## **Exercise 2** 

You have a `Button` class and `ButtonEvent` and `Position` data classes. Write some code that triggers the `onEvent()` member function of the `Button` class to trigger a double-click event. Your code should print `"Double click!"` . 

129 

```
class Button {
funonEvent(action: ButtonEvent.()/> Unit){
// Simulate a double-click event (not a right-click)
val event =ButtonEvent(isRightClick =false, amount =2, position =Position(100,200))
        event.action()// Trigger the event callback
}
}
dataclassButtonEvent(
val isRightClick: Boolean,
val amount: Int,
val position: Position
)
dataclassPosition(
val x: Int,
val y: Int
)
funmain(){
val button =Button()
    button.onEvent{
// Write your code here
// Double click!
}
}
```

```
class Button {
funonEvent(action: ButtonEvent.()/> Unit){
// Simulate a double-click event (not a right-click)
val event =ButtonEvent(isRightClick =false, amount =2, position =Position(100,200))
        event.action()// Trigger the event callback
}
}
dataclassButtonEvent(
val isRightClick: Boolean,
val amount: Int,
val position: Position
)
dataclassPosition(
val x: Int,
val y: Int
)
funmain(){
val button =Button()
    button.onEvent{
if(!isRightClick /& amount /=2){
println("Double click!")
// Double click!
}
}
}
```

130 

## **Exercise 3** 

Write a function that creates a copy of a list of integers where every element is incremented by 1. Use the provided function skeleton that extends `List<Int>` with an `incremented` function. 

```
fun List<Int>.incremented(): List<Int>{
val originalList =this
return buildList {
// Write your code here
}
}
funmain(){
val originalList =listOf(1,2,3)
val newList = originalList.incremented()
println(newList)
// [2, 3, 4]
}
```

```
fun List<Int>.incremented(): List<Int>{
val originalList =this
return buildList {
for(n in originalList)add(n +1)
}
}
funmain(){
val originalList =listOf(1,2,3)
val newList = originalList.incremented()
println(newList)
// [2, 3, 4]
}
```

## **Next step** 

Intermediate: Classes and interfaces 

## **Intermediate: Classes and interfaces** 

In the beginner tour, you learned how to use classes and data classes to store data and maintain a collection of characteristics that can be shared in your code. Eventually, you will want to create a hierarchy to efficiently share code within your projects. This chapter explains the options Kotlin provides for sharing code and how they can make your code safer and easier to maintain. 

## **Class inheritance** 

In a previous chapter, we covered how you can use extension functions to extend classes without modifying the original source code. But what if you are working on something complex where sharing code **between** classes would be useful? In such cases, you can use class inheritance. 

By default, classes in Kotlin can't be inherited. Kotlin is designed this way to prevent unintended inheritance and make your classes easier to maintain. 

131 

Kotlin classes only support **single inheritance** , meaning it is only possible to inherit from **one class at a time** . This class is called the **parent** . 

The parent of a class inherits from another class (the grandparent), forming a hierarchy. At the top of Kotlin's class hierarchy is the common parent class: `Any` . All classes ultimately inherit from the `Any` class: 

**==> picture [150 x 158] intentionally omitted <==**

An example of the class hierarchy with Any type 

The `Any` class provides the `toString()` function as a member function automatically. Therefore, you can use this inherited function in any of your classes. For example: 

```
classCar(val make: String,val model: String,val numberOfDoors: Int)
funmain(){
val car1 =Car("Toyota","Corolla",4)
// Uses the .toString() function via string templates to print class properties
println("Car1: make=${car1.make}, model=${car1.model}, numberOfDoors=${car1.numberOfDoors}")
// Car1: make=Toyota, model=Corolla, numberOfDoors=4
//sampleEnd
}
```

If you want to use inheritance to share some code between classes, first consider using abstract classes. 

## **Abstract classes** 

Abstract classes can be inherited by default. The purpose of abstract classes is to provide members that other classes inherit or implement. As a result, they have a constructor, but you can't create instances from them. Within the child class, you define the behavior of the parent's properties and functions with the `override` keyword. In this way, you can say that the child class "overrides" the members of the parent class. 

When you define the behavior of an inherited function or property, we call that an **implementation** . 

Abstract classes can contain both functions and properties **with** implementation as well as functions and properties **without** implementation, known as abstract functions and properties. 

To create an abstract class, use the `abstract` keyword: 

```
abstractclass Animal
```

To declare a function or a property **without** an implementation, you also use the `abstract` keyword: 

132 

```
abstractfunmakeSound()
abstractval sound: String
```

For example, let's say that you want to create an abstract class called `Product` that you can create child classes from to define different product categories: 

```
abstractclassProduct(val name: String,var price: Double){
// Abstract property for the product category
abstractval category: String
```

```
// A function that can be shared by all products
funproductInfo(): String {
return"Product: $name, Category: $category, Price: $price"
}
}
```

In the abstract class: 

- The constructor has two parameters for the product's `name` and `price` . 

- There is an abstract property that contains the product category as a string. 

- There is a function that prints information about the product. 

Let's create a child class for electronics. Before you define an implementation for the `category` property in the child class, you must use the `override` keyword: 

```
classElectronic(name: String, price: Double,val warranty: Int):Product(name, price){
overrideval category ="Electronic"
}
```

The `Electronic` class: 

- Inherits from the `Product` abstract class. 

- Has an additional parameter in the constructor: `warranty` , which is specific to electronics. 

- Overrides the `category` property to contain the string `"Electronic"` . 

Now, you can use these classes like this: 

133 

```
abstractclassProduct(val name: String,var price: Double){
// Abstract property for the product category
abstractval category: String
// A function that can be shared by all products
funproductInfo(): String {
return"Product: $name, Category: $category, Price: $price"
}
}
classElectronic(name: String, price: Double,val warranty: Int):Product(name, price){
overrideval category ="Electronic"
}
funmain(){
// Creates an instance of the Electronic class
val laptop =Electronic(name ="Laptop", price =1000.0, warranty =2)
println(laptop.productInfo())
// Product: Laptop, Category: Electronic, Price: 1000.0
}
```

Although abstract classes are great for sharing code in this way, they are restricted because classes in Kotlin only support single inheritance. If you need to inherit from multiple sources, consider using interfaces. 

## **Interfaces** 

Interfaces are similar to classes, but they have some differences: 

- You can't create an instance of an interface. They don't have a constructor or header. 

- Their functions and properties are implicitly inheritable by default. In Kotlin, we say that they are "open." 

- You don't need to mark their functions as `abstract` if you don't give them an implementation. 

Similar to abstract classes, you use interfaces to define a set of functions and properties that classes can inherit and implement later. This approach helps you focus on the abstraction described by the interface, rather than the specific implementation details. Using interfaces makes your code: 

- More modular, as it isolates different parts, allowing them to evolve independently. 

- Easier to understand by grouping related functions into a cohesive set. 

- Easier to test, as you can quickly swap an implementation with a mock for testing. 

To declare an interface, use the `interface` keyword: 

```
interface PaymentMethod
```

## **Interface implementation** 

Interfaces support multiple inheritance so a class can implement multiple interfaces at once. First, let's consider the scenario where a class implements **one** interface. 

To create a class that implements an interface, add a colon after your class header, followed by the interface name that you want to implement. You don't use parentheses `()` after the interface name because interfaces don't have a constructor: 

134 

```
class CreditCardPayment : PaymentMethod
```

For example: 

```
interface PaymentMethod {
// Functions are inheritable by default
funinitiatePayment(amount: Double): String
}
```

```
classCreditCardPayment(val cardNumber: String,val cardHolderName: String,val expiryDate: String):
PaymentMethod {
```

```
overridefuninitiatePayment(amount: Double): String {
// Simulate processing payment with credit card
```

```
return"Payment of $$amount initiated using Credit Card ending in ${cardNumber.takeLast(4)}."
}
}
funmain(){
val paymentMethod =CreditCardPayment("1234 5678 9012 3456","John Doe","12/25")
println(paymentMethod.initiatePayment(100.0))
// Payment of $100.0 initiated using Credit Card ending in 3456.
}
```

In the example: 

- `PaymentMethod` is an interface that has an `initiatePayment()` function without an implementation. 

- `CreditCardPayment` is a class that implements the `PaymentMethod` interface. 

- The `CreditCardPayment` class overrides the inherited `initiatePayment()` function. 

- `paymentMethod` is an instance of the `CreditCardPayment` class. 

- The overridden `initiatePayment()` function is called on the `paymentMethod` instance with a parameter of `100.0` . 

To create a class that implements **multiple** interfaces, add a colon after your class header followed by the name of the interfaces that you want to implement separated by a comma: 

```
class CreditCardPayment : PaymentMethod, PaymentType
```

For example: 

135 

```
interface PaymentMethod {
funinitiatePayment(amount: Double): String
}
interface PaymentType {
val paymentType: String
}
```

```
classCreditCardPayment(val cardNumber: String,val cardHolderName: String,val expiryDate: String):
PaymentMethod,
    PaymentType {
overridefuninitiatePayment(amount: Double): String {
// Simulate processing payment with credit card
return"Payment of $$amount initiated using Credit Card ending in ${cardNumber.takeLast(4)}."
}
overrideval paymentType: String ="Credit Card"
}
```

```
funmain(){
val paymentMethod =CreditCardPayment("1234 5678 9012 3456","John Doe","12/25")
println(paymentMethod.initiatePayment(100.0))
// Payment of $100.0 initiated using Credit Card ending in 3456.
"
println("Payment is by ${paymentMethod.paymentType})
// Payment is by Credit Card
}
```

In the example: 

- `PaymentMethod` is an interface that has the `initiatePayment()` function without an implementation. 

- `PaymentType` is an interface that has the `paymentType` property that isn't initialized. 

- `CreditCardPayment` is a class that implements the `PaymentMethod` and `PaymentType` interfaces. 

- The `CreditCardPayment` class overrides the inherited `initiatePayment()` function and the `paymentType` property. 

- `paymentMethod` is an instance of the `CreditCardPayment` class. 

- The overridden `initiatePayment()` function is called on the `paymentMethod` instance with a parameter of `100.0` . 

- The overridden `paymentType` property is accessed on the `paymentMethod` instance. 

For more information about interfaces and interface inheritance, see Interfaces. 

## **Delegation** 

Interfaces are useful, but if your interface contains many functions, its child classes can end up with a lot of boilerplate code. If you only want to override a small part of a class's behavior, you need to repeat yourself a lot. 

Boilerplate code is a chunk of code that is reused with little or no alteration in multiple parts of a software project. 

For example, let's say that you have an interface called `DrawingTool` that contains a number of functions and one property called `color` : 

136 

```
interface DrawingTool {
val color: String
fundraw(shape: String)
funerase(area: String)
fungetToolInfo(): String
}
```

You create a class called `PenTool` which implements the `DrawingTool` interface and provides implementations for all of its members: 

```
class PenTool : DrawingTool {
overrideval color: String ="black"
overridefundraw(shape: String){
println("Drawing $shape using a pen in $color")
}
overridefunerase(area: String){
println("Erasing $area with pen tool")
}
overridefungetToolInfo(): String {
return"PenTool(color=$color)"
}
}
```

You want to create a class like `PenTool` with the same behavior but a different `color` value. One approach is to create a new class that expects an object implementing the `DrawingTool` interface as a parameter, like a `PenTool` class instance. Then, inside the class, you can override the `color` property. 

But in this scenario, you need to add implementations for each member of the `DrawingTool` interface: 

137 

```
interface DrawingTool {
val color: String
fundraw(shape: String)
funerase(area: String)
fungetToolInfo(): String
}
class PenTool : DrawingTool {
overrideval color: String ="black"
overridefundraw(shape: String){
println("Drawing $shape using a pen in $color")
}
overridefunerase(area: String){
println("Erasing $area with pen tool")
}
overridefungetToolInfo(): String {
return"PenTool(color=$color)"
}
}
classCanvasSession(val tool: DrawingTool): DrawingTool {
overrideval color: String ="blue"
overridefundraw(shape: String){
        tool.draw(shape)
}
overridefunerase(area: String){
        tool.erase(area)
}
overridefungetToolInfo(): String {
return tool.getToolInfo()
}
}
funmain(){
val pen =PenTool()
val session =CanvasSession(pen)
println("Pen color: ${pen.color}")
// Pen color: black
println("Session color: ${session.color}")
// Session color: blue
    session.draw("circle")
// Drawing circle with pen in black
    session.erase("top-left corner")
// Erasing top-left corner with pen tool
println(session.getToolInfo())
// PenTool(color=black)
}
```

You can see that if you have a large number of member functions in the `DrawingTool` interface, the amount of boilerplate code in the `CanvasSession` class can be large. However, there is an alternative. 

In Kotlin, you can delegate the interface implementation to a class instance using the `by` keyword. For example: 

138 

```
classCanvasSession(val tool: DrawingTool): DrawingTool by tool
```

Here, `tool` is the name of the `PenTool` class instance where the implementations of member functions are delegated to. 

Now you don't have to add implementations for the member functions in the `CanvasSession` class. The compiler does this for you automatically from the `PenTool` class. This saves you from having to write a lot of boilerplate code. Instead, you add code only for the behavior you want to change for your child class. 

For example, if you want to change the value of the `color` property: 

```
interface DrawingTool {
val color: String
fundraw(shape: String)
funerase(area: String)
fungetToolInfo(): String
}
class PenTool : DrawingTool {
overrideval color: String ="black"
overridefundraw(shape: String){
println("Drawing $shape using a pen in $color")
}
overridefunerase(area: String){
println("Erasing $area with pen tool")
}
overridefungetToolInfo(): String {
return"PenTool(color=$color)"
}
}
classCanvasSession(val tool: DrawingTool): DrawingTool by tool {
// No boilerplate code!
overrideval color: String ="blue"
}
funmain(){
val pen =PenTool()
val session =CanvasSession(pen)
println("Pen color: ${pen.color}")
// Pen color: black
println("Session color: ${session.color}")
// Session color: blue
    session.draw("circle")
// Drawing circle with pen in black
    session.erase("top-left corner")
// Erasing top-left corner with pen tool
println(session.getToolInfo())
// PenTool(color=black)
}
```

If you want to, you can also override the behavior of an inherited member function in the `CanvasSession` class, but now you don't have to add new lines of code for every inherited member function. 

139 

For more information, see Delegation. 

## **Practice** 

## **Exercise 1** 

Imagine you're working on a smart home system. A smart home typically has different types of devices that all have some basic features but also unique behaviors. In the code sample below, complete the `abstract` class called 

`SmartDevice` so that the child class `SmartLight` can compile successfully. 

Then, create another child class called `SmartThermostat` that inherits from the `SmartDevice` class and implements `turnOn()` and `turnOff()` functions that return print statements describing which thermostat is heating or turned off. Finally, add another function called `adjustTemperature()` that accepts a temperature measurement as an input and prints: `$name thermostat set to $temperature°C.` 

## Hint 

In the `SmartDevice` class, add the `turnOn()` and `turnOff()` functions so that you can override their behavior later in the `SmartThermostat` class. 

```
abstractclass// Write your code here
classSmartLight(name: String):SmartDevice(name){
overridefunturnOn(){
println("$name is now ON.")
}
overridefunturnOff(){
println("$name is now OFF.")
}
funadjustBrightness(level: Int){
println("Adjusting $name brightness to $level%.")
}
}
class SmartThermostat // Write your code here
```

```
funmain(){
val livingRoomLight =SmartLight("Living Room Light")
val bedroomThermostat =SmartThermostat("Bedroom Thermostat")
    livingRoomLight.turnOn()
// Living Room Light is now ON.
    livingRoomLight.adjustBrightness(10)
// Adjusting Living Room Light brightness to 10%.
    livingRoomLight.turnOff()
// Living Room Light is now OFF.
```

```
    bedroomThermostat.turnOn()
// Bedroom Thermostat thermostat is now heating.
    bedroomThermostat.adjustTemperature(5)
// Bedroom Thermostat thermostat set to 5°C.
    bedroomThermostat.turnOff()
// Bedroom Thermostat thermostat is now off.
}
```

140 

```
abstractclassSmartDevice(val name: String){
abstractfunturnOn()
abstractfunturnOff()
}
classSmartLight(name: String):SmartDevice(name){
overridefunturnOn(){
println("$name is now ON.")
}
overridefunturnOff(){
println("$name is now OFF.")
}
funadjustBrightness(level: Int){
println("Adjusting $name brightness to $level%.")
}
}
classSmartThermostat(name: String):SmartDevice(name){
overridefunturnOn(){
println("$name thermostat is now heating.")
}
overridefunturnOff(){
println("$name thermostat is now off.")
}
funadjustTemperature(temperature: Int){
println("$name thermostat set to $temperature°C.")
}
}
funmain(){
val livingRoomLight =SmartLight("Living Room Light")
val bedroomThermostat =SmartThermostat("Bedroom Thermostat")
    livingRoomLight.turnOn()
// Living Room Light is now ON.
    livingRoomLight.adjustBrightness(10)
// Adjusting Living Room Light brightness to 10%.
    livingRoomLight.turnOff()
// Living Room Light is now OFF.
    bedroomThermostat.turnOn()
// Bedroom Thermostat thermostat is now heating.
    bedroomThermostat.adjustTemperature(5)
// Bedroom Thermostat thermostat set to 5°C.
    bedroomThermostat.turnOff()
// Bedroom Thermostat thermostat is now off.
}
```

## **Exercise 2** 

Create an interface called `Media` that you can use to implement specific media classes like `Audio` , `Video` , or `Podcast` . Your interface must include: 

- A property called `title` to represent the title of the media. 

- A function called `play()` to play the media. 

141 

Then, create a class called `Audio` that implements the `Media` interface. The `Audio` class must use the `title` property in its constructor as well as have an additional property called `composer` that has `String` type. In the class, implement the `play()` function to print the following: `"Playing audio: $title, composed by $composer"` . 

## Hint 

You can use the `override` keyword in class headers to implement a property from an interface in the constructor. 

```
interface// Write your code here
class// Write your code here
funmain(){
val audio =Audio("Symphony No. 5","Beethoven")
    audio.play()
// Playing audio: Symphony No. 5, composed by Beethoven
}
interface Media {
val title: String
funplay()
}
classAudio(overrideval title: String,val composer: String): Media {
overridefunplay(){
println("Playing audio: $title, composed by $composer")
}
}
funmain(){
val audio =Audio("Symphony No. 5","Beethoven")
    audio.play()
// Playing audio: Symphony No. 5, composed by Beethoven
}
```

## **Exercise 3** 

You're building a payment processing system for an e-commerce application. Each payment method needs to be able to authorize a payment and process a transaction. Some payments also need to be able to process refunds. 

1. In the `Refundable` interface, add a function called `refund()` to process refunds. 

2. In the `PaymentMethod` abstract class: 

   - 

   - Add a function called `authorize()` that takes an amount and prints a message containing the amount. 

- 

      - Add an abstract function called `processPayment()` that also takes an amount. 

3. Create a class called `CreditCard` that implements the `Refundable` interface and `PaymentMethod` abstract class. In this class, add implementations for the `refund()` and `processPayment()` functions so that they print the following statements: 

   - 

   - `"Refunding $amount to the credit card."` 

- 

- `"Processing credit card payment of $amount."` 

142 

```
interface Refundable {
// Write your code here
}
abstractclassPaymentMethod(val name: String){
// Write your code here
}
class CreditCard // Write your code here
funmain(){
val visa =CreditCard("Visa")
    visa.authorize(100.0)
// Authorizing payment of $100.0.
    visa.processPayment(100.0)
// Processing credit card payment of $100.0.
    visa.refund(50.0)
// Refunding $50.0 to the credit card.
}
```

```
interface Refundable {
funrefund(amount: Double)
}
```

```
abstractclassPaymentMethod(val name: String){
funauthorize(amount: Double){
println("Authorizing payment of $$amount.")
}
abstractfunprocessPayment(amount: Double)
}
```

```
classCreditCard(name: String):PaymentMethod(name), Refundable {
overridefunprocessPayment(amount: Double){
println("Processing credit card payment of $$amount.")
}
overridefunrefund(amount: Double){
println("Refunding $$amount to the credit card.")
}
}
funmain(){
val visa =CreditCard("Visa")
    visa.authorize(100.0)
// Authorizing payment of $100.0.
    visa.processPayment(100.0)
// Processing credit card payment of $100.0.
    visa.refund(50.0)
// Refunding $50.0 to the credit card.
}
```

## **Exercise 4** 

You have a simple messaging app that has some basic functionality, but you want to add some functionality for smart messages without significantly duplicating your code. 

143 

In the code below, define a class called `SmartMessenger` that inherits from the `Messenger` interface but delegates the implementation to an instance of the `BasicMessenger` class. 

In the `SmartMessenger` class, override the `sendMessage()` function to send smart messages. The function must accept a `message` as an input and return a printed statement: `"Sending a smart message: $message"` . In addition, call the `sendMessage()` function from the `BasicMessenger` class and prefix the message with `[smart]` . 

You don't need to rewrite the `receiveMessage()` function in the `SmartMessenger` class. 

```
interface Messenger {
funsendMessage(message: String)
funreceiveMessage(): String
}
class BasicMessenger : Messenger {
overridefunsendMessage(message: String){
println("Sending message: $message")
}
overridefunreceiveMessage(): String {
return"You've got a new message!"
}
}
```

```
class SmartMessenger // Write your code here
```

```
funmain(){
val basicMessenger =BasicMessenger()
val smartMessenger =SmartMessenger(basicMessenger)
```

```
    basicMessenger.sendMessage("Hello!")
// Sending message: Hello!
println(smartMessenger.receiveMessage())
// You've got a new message!
    smartMessenger.sendMessage("Hello from SmartMessenger!")
// Sending a smart message: Hello from SmartMessenger!
// Sending message: [smart] Hello from SmartMessenger!
}
```

144 

```
interface Messenger {
funsendMessage(message: String)
funreceiveMessage(): String
}
class BasicMessenger : Messenger {
overridefunsendMessage(message: String){
println("Sending message: $message")
}
overridefunreceiveMessage(): String {
return"You've got a new message!"
}
}
classSmartMessenger(val basicMessenger: BasicMessenger): Messenger by basicMessenger {
overridefunsendMessage(message: String){
println("Sending a smart message: $message")
"
        basicMessenger.sendMessage("[smart] $message)
}
}
funmain(){
val basicMessenger =BasicMessenger()
val smartMessenger =SmartMessenger(basicMessenger)
    basicMessenger.sendMessage("Hello!")
// Sending message: Hello!
println(smartMessenger.receiveMessage())
// You've got a new message!
    smartMessenger.sendMessage("Hello from SmartMessenger!")
// Sending a smart message: Hello from SmartMessenger!
// Sending message: [smart] Hello from SmartMessenger!
}
```

## **Next step** 

Intermediate: Objects 

## **Intermediate: Objects** 

In this chapter, you'll expand your understanding of classes by exploring object declarations. This knowledge will help you efficiently manage behavior across your projects. 

## **Object declarations** 

In Kotlin, you can use **object declarations** to declare a class with a single instance. In a sense, you declare the class and create the single instance at the same time. Object declarations are useful when you want to create a class to use as a single reference point for your program or to coordinate behavior across a system. 

A class that has only one instance that is easily accessible is called a **singleton** . 

Objects in Kotlin are **lazy** , meaning they are created only when accessed. Kotlin also ensures that all objects are created in a thread-safe manner so that you don't have to check this manually. 

145 

To create an object declaration, use the `object` keyword: 

```
object DoAuth {}
```

Following the name of your `object` , add any properties or member functions within the object body defined by curly braces `{}` . 

Objects can't have constructors, so they don't have headers like classes. 

For example, let's say that you wanted to create an object called `DoAuth` that is responsible for authentication: 

```
object DoAuth {
funtakeParams(username: String, password: String){
println("input Auth parameters = $username:$password")
}
}
funmain(){
// The object is created when the takeParams() function is called
    DoAuth.takeParams("coding_ninja","N1njaC0ding!")
// input Auth parameters = coding_ninja:N1njaC0ding!
}
```

The object has a member function called `takeParams` that accepts `username` and `password` variables as parameters and prints a string to the console. The `DoAuth` object is only created when the function is called for the first time. 

Objects can inherit from classes and interfaces. For example: 

```
interface Auth {
funtakeParams(username: String, password: String)
}
object DoAuth : Auth {
overridefuntakeParams(username: String, password: String){
println("input Auth parameters = $username:$password")
}
}
```

## **Data objects** 

To make it easier to print the contents of an object declaration, Kotlin has **data** objects. Similar to data classes, which you learned about in the beginner tour, data objects automatically come with additional member functions: `toString()` and `equals()` . 

Unlike data classes, data objects do not come automatically with the `copy()` member function because they only have a single instance that can't be copied. 

To create a data object, use the same syntax as for object declarations but prefix it with the `data` keyword: 

```
dataobject AppConfig {}
```

146 

For example: 

```
dataobject AppConfig {
var appName: String ="My Application"
var version: String ="1.0.0"
}
funmain(){
println(AppConfig)
// AppConfig
println(AppConfig.appName)
// My Application
}
```

For more information about data objects, see Data objects. 

## **Companion objects** 

In Kotlin, a class can have an object: a **companion** object. You can only have **one** companion object per class. A companion object is created only when its class is referenced for the first time. 

Any properties or functions declared inside a companion object are shared across all class instances. 

To create a companion object within a class, use the same syntax for an object declaration but prefix it with the `companion` keyword: 

```
companionobject Bonger {}
```

A companion object doesn't have to have a name. If you don't define one, the default is `Companion` . 

To access any properties or functions of the companion object, reference the class name. For example: 

```
class BigBen {
companionobject Bonger {
fungetBongs(nTimes: Int){
repeat(nTimes){print("BONG ")}
}
}
}
funmain(){
// Companion object is created when the class is referenced for the
// first time.
    BigBen.getBongs(12)
// BONG BONG BONG BONG BONG BONG BONG BONG BONG BONG BONG BONG
}
```

This example creates a class called `BigBen` that contains a companion object called `Bonger` . The companion object has a member function called `getBongs()` that accepts an integer and prints `"BONG"` to the console the same number of times as the integer. 

In the `main()` function, the `getBongs()` function is called by referring to the class name. The companion object is created at this point. The `getBongs()` function is called with parameter `12` . 

For more information, see Companion objects. 

147 

## **Practice** 

## **Exercise 1** 

You run a coffee shop and have a system for tracking customer orders. Consider the code below and complete the declaration of the second data object so that the following code in the `main()` function runs successfully: 

```
interface Order {
val orderId: String
val customerName: String
val orderTotal: Double
}
dataobject OrderOne: Order {
overrideval orderId ="001"
overrideval customerName ="Alice"
overrideval orderTotal =15.50
}
dataobject// Write your code here
funmain(){
// Print the name of each data object
println("Order name: $OrderOne")
// Order name: OrderOne
println("Order name: $OrderTwo")
// Order name: OrderTwo
// Check if the orders are identical
println("Are the two orders identical? ${OrderOne /= OrderTwo}")
// Are the two orders identical? false
if(OrderOne /= OrderTwo){
println("The orders are identical.")
}else{
println("The orders are unique.")
// The orders are unique.
}
```

```
println("Do the orders have the same customer name? ${OrderOne.customerName /=
OrderTwo.customerName}")
```

```
// Do the orders have the same customer name? false
}
```

148 

```
interface Order {
val orderId: String
val customerName: String
val orderTotal: Double
}
dataobject OrderOne: Order {
overrideval orderId ="001"
overrideval customerName ="Alice"
overrideval orderTotal =15.50
}
dataobject OrderTwo: Order {
overrideval orderId ="002"
overrideval customerName ="Bob"
overrideval orderTotal =12.75
}
funmain(){
// Print the name of each data object
println("Order name: $OrderOne")
// Order name: OrderOne
println("Order name: $OrderTwo")
// Order name: OrderTwo
// Check if the orders are identical
println("Are the two orders identical? ${OrderOne /= OrderTwo}")
// Are the two orders identical? false
```

```
if(OrderOne /= OrderTwo){
println("The orders are identical.")
}else{
println("The orders are unique.")
// The orders are unique.
}
```

```
println("Do the orders have the same customer name? ${OrderOne.customerName /=
OrderTwo.customerName}")
```

```
// Do the orders have the same customer name? false
}
```

## **Exercise 2** 

Create an object declaration that inherits from the `Vehicle` interface to create a unique vehicle type: 

`FlyingSkateboard` . Implement the `name` property and the `move()` function in your object so that the following code in the `main()` function runs successfully: 

149 

```
interface Vehicle {
val name: String
funmove(): String
}
object// Write your code here
```

```
funmain(){
""
println(${FlyingSkateboard.name}: ${FlyingSkateboard.move()})
// Flying Skateboard: Glides through the air with a hover engine
""
println(${FlyingSkateboard.name}: ${FlyingSkateboard.fly()})
// Flying Skateboard: Woooooooo
}
```

```
interface Vehicle {
val name: String
funmove(): String
}
object FlyingSkateboard : Vehicle {
overrideval name ="Flying Skateboard"
overridefunmove()="Glides through the air with a hover engine"
funfly(): String ="Woooooooo"
}
funmain(){
""
println(${FlyingSkateboard.name}: ${FlyingSkateboard.move()})
// Flying Skateboard: Glides through the air with a hover engine
""
println(${FlyingSkateboard.name}: ${FlyingSkateboard.fly()})
// Flying Skateboard: Woooooooo
}
```

## **Exercise 3** 

You have an app where you want to record temperatures. The class itself stores the information in Celsius, but you want to provide an easy way to create an instance in Fahrenheit as well. Complete the data class so that the following code in the `main()` function runs successfully: 

## Hint 

Use a companion object. 

```
dataclassTemperature(val celsius: Double){
val fahrenheit: Double = celsius *9/5+32
// Write your code here
}
funmain(){
val fahrenheit =90.0
val temp = Temperature.fromFahrenheit(fahrenheit)
println("${temp.celsius}°C is $fahrenheit °F")
// 32.22222222222222°C is 90.0 °F
}
```

150 

```
dataclassTemperature(val celsius: Double){
val fahrenheit: Double = celsius *9/5+32
companionobject{
funfromFahrenheit(fahrenheit: Double): Temperature =Temperature((fahrenheit -32)*5/9)
}
}
funmain(){
val fahrenheit =90.0
val temp = Temperature.fromFahrenheit(fahrenheit)
println("${temp.celsius}°C is $fahrenheit °F")
// 32.22222222222222°C is 90.0 °F
}
```

## **Next step** 

Intermediate: Open and special classes 

## **Intermediate: Open and special classes** 

In this chapter, you'll learn about open classes, how they work with interfaces, and other special types of classes available in Kotlin. 

## **Open classes** 

If you can't use interfaces or abstract classes, you can explicitly make a class inheritable by declaring it as **open** . To do this, use the `open` keyword before your class declaration: 

```
openclassVehicle(val make: String,val model: String)
```

To create a class that inherits from another, add a colon after your class header followed by a call to the constructor of the parent class that you want to inherit from. In this example, the `Car` class inherits from the `Vehicle` class: 

```
openclassVehicle(val make: String,val model: String)
classCar(make: String, model: String,val numberOfDoors: Int):Vehicle(make, model)
funmain(){
// Creates an instance of the Car class
val car =Car("Toyota","Corolla",4)
// Prints the details of the car
println("Car Info: Make - ${car.make}, Model - ${car.model}, Number of doors -
${car.numberOfDoors}")
// Car Info: Make - Toyota, Model - Corolla, Number of doors - 4
}
```

Just like when creating a normal class instance, if your class inherits from a parent class, then it must initialize all the parameters declared in the parent class header. So in the example, the `car` instance of the `Car` class initializes the parent class parameters: `make` and `model` . 

151 

## **Overriding inherited behavior** 

If you want to inherit from a class but change some of the behavior, you can override the inherited behavior. 

By default, it's not possible to override a member function or property of a parent class. Just like with abstract classes, you need to add special keywords. 

## **Member functions** 

To allow a function in the parent class to be overridden, use the `open` keyword before its declaration in the parent class: 

```
openfundisplayInfo(){}
```

To override an inherited member function, use the `override` keyword before the function declaration in the child class: 

```
overridefundisplayInfo(){}
```

For example: 

```
openclassVehicle(val make: String,val model: String){
openfundisplayInfo(){
println("Vehicle Info: Make - $make, Model - $model")
}
}
classCar(make: String, model: String,val numberOfDoors: Int):Vehicle(make, model){
overridefundisplayInfo(){
println("Car Info: Make - $make, Model - $model, Number of Doors - $numberOfDoors")
}
}
funmain(){
val car1 =Car("Toyota","Corolla",4)
val car2 =Car("Honda","Civic",2)
// Uses the overridden displayInfo() function
    car1.displayInfo()
// Car Info: Make - Toyota, Model - Corolla, Number of Doors - 4
    car2.displayInfo()
// Car Info: Make - Honda, Model - Civic, Number of Doors - 2
}
```

This example: 

- Creates two instances of the `Car` class that inherit from the `Vehicle` class: `car1` and `car2` . 

- Overrides the `displayInfo()` function in the `Car` class to also print the number of doors. 

- Calls the overridden `displayInfo()` function on `car1` and `car2` instances. 

## **Properties** 

In Kotlin, it's not common practice to make a property inheritable by using the `open` keyword and overriding it later. Most of the time, you use an abstract class or an interface where properties are inheritable by default. 

Properties inside open classes are accessible by their child class. In general, it's better to access them directly rather than override them with a new property. 

152 

For example, let's say that you have a property called `transmissionType` that you want to override later. The syntax for overriding properties is exactly the same as for overriding member functions. You can do this: 

```
openclassVehicle(val make: String,val model: String){
openval transmissionType: String ="Manual"
}
classCar(make: String, model: String,val numberOfDoors: Int):Vehicle(make, model){
overrideval transmissionType: String ="Automatic"
}
```

However, this is not good practice. Instead, you can add the property to the constructor of your inheritable class and declare its value when you create the `Car` child class: 

```
openclassVehicle(val make: String,val model: String,val transmissionType: String ="Manual")
classCar(make: String, model: String,val numberOfDoors: Int):Vehicle(make, model,"Automatic")
```

Accessing properties directly, instead of overriding them, leads to simpler and more readable code. By declaring properties once in the parent class and passing their values through the constructor, you eliminate the need for unnecessary overrides in child classes. 

For more information about class inheritance and overriding class behavior, see Inheritance. 

## **Open classes and interfaces** 

You can create a class that inherits a class **and** implements multiple interfaces. In this case, you must declare the parent class first, after the colon, before listing the interfaces: 

```
// Define interfaces
interface EcoFriendly {
val emissionLevel: String
}
interface ElectricVehicle {
val batteryCapacity: Double
}
// Parent class
openclassVehicle(val make: String,val model: String)
// Child class
openclassCar(make: String, model: String,val numberOfDoors: Int):Vehicle(make, model)
// New class that inherits from Car and implements two interfaces
classElectricCar(
    make: String,
    model: String,
    numberOfDoors: Int,
val capacity: Double,
val emission: String
):Car(make, model, numberOfDoors), EcoFriendly, ElectricVehicle {
overrideval batteryCapacity: Double = capacity
overrideval emissionLevel: String = emission
}
```

153 

## **Special classes** 

In addition to abstract, open, and data classes, Kotlin has special types of classes designed for various purposes, such as restricting specific behavior or reducing the performance impact of creating small objects. 

## **Sealed classes** 

There may be times when you want to restrict inheritance. You can do this with sealed classes. Sealed classes are a special type of abstract class. Once you declare that a class is sealed, you can only create child classes from it within the same package. It's not possible to inherit from the sealed class outside of this scope. 

A package is a collection of code with related classes and functions, typically within a directory. To learn more about packages in Kotlin, see Packages and imports. 

To create a sealed class, use the `sealed` keyword: 

```
sealedclass Mammal
```

Sealed classes are particularly useful when combined with a `when` expression. By using a `when` expression, you can define the behavior for all possible child classes. For example: 

```
sealedclassMammal(val name: String)
classCat(val catName: String):Mammal(catName)
classHuman(val humanName: String,val job: String):Mammal(humanName)
```

```
fungreetMammal(mammal: Mammal): String {
when(mammal){
is Human />return"Hello ${mammal.name}; You're working as a ${mammal.job}"
is Cat />return"Hello ${mammal.name}"
}
}
funmain(){
println(greetMammal(Cat("Snowy")))
// Hello Snowy
}
```

In the example: 

- 

   - There is a sealed class called `Mammal` that has the `name` parameter in the constructor. 

- The `Cat` class inherits from the `Mammal` sealed class and uses the `catName` parameter in its own constructor as the `name` parameter from the `Mammal` class. 

- The `Human` class inherits from the `Mammal` sealed class and uses the `humanName` parameter in its own constructor as the `name` parameter from the `Mammal` class. It also has the `job` parameter in its constructor. 

- 

   - The `greetMammal()` function accepts an argument of `Mammal` type and returns a string. 

- Within the `greetMammal()` function body, there's a `when` expression that uses the `is` operator to check the type of `mammal` and decide which action to perform. 

- The `main()` function calls the `greetMammal()` function with an instance of the `Cat` class and `name` parameter called `Snowy` . 

154 

This tour discusses the `is` operator in more detail in the Null safety chapter. 

For more information about sealed classes and their recommended use cases, see Sealed classes and interfaces. 

## **Enum classes** 

Enum classes are useful when you want to represent a finite set of distinct values in a class. An enum class contains enum constants, which are themselves instances of the enum class. 

To create an enum class, use the `enum` keyword: 

```
enumclass State
```

Let's say that you want to create an enum class that contains the different states of a process. Each enum constant must be separated by a comma `,` : 

```
enumclass State {
    IDLE, RUNNING, FINISHED
}
```

The `State` enum class has enum constants: `IDLE` , `RUNNING` , and `FINISHED` . To access an enum constant, use the class name followed by a `.` and the name of the enum constant: 

```
val state = State.RUNNING
```

You can use this enum class with a `when` expression to define the action to take depending on the value of the enum constant: 

```
enumclass State {
    IDLE, RUNNING, FINISHED
}
funmain(){
val state = State.RUNNING
val message =when(state){
        State.IDLE />"It's idle"
        State.RUNNING />"It's running"
        State.FINISHED />"It's finished"
}
println(message)
// It's running
}
```

Enum classes can have properties and member functions just like normal classes. 

For example, let's say you're working with HTML and you want to create an enum class containing some colors. You want each color to have a property, let's call it `rgb` , that contains their RGB value as a hexadecimal. When creating the enum constants, you must initialize it with this property: 

```
enumclassColor(val rgb: Int){
RED(0xFF0000),
GREEN(0x00FF00),
BLUE(0x0000FF),
YELLOW(0xFFFF00)
}
```

155 

Kotlin stores hexadecimals as integers, so the `rgb` property has the `Int` type, not the `String` type. 

To add a member function to this class, separate it from the enum constants with a semicolon `;` : 

```
enumclassColor(val rgb: Int){
RED(0xFF0000),
GREEN(0x00FF00),
BLUE(0x0000FF),
YELLOW(0xFFFF00);
funcontainsRed()=(this.rgb and0xFF0000/=0)
}
funmain(){
val red = Color.RED
// Calls containsRed() function on enum constant
println(red.containsRed())
// true
// Calls containsRed() function on enum constants via class names
println(Color.BLUE.containsRed())
// false
println(Color.YELLOW.containsRed())
// true
}
```

In this example, the `containsRed()` member function accesses the value of the enum constant's `rgb` property using the `this` keyword and checks if the hexadecimal value contains `FF` as its first bits to return a boolean value. 

For more information, see Enum classes. 

## **Inline value classes** 

Sometimes in your code, you may want to create small objects from classes and use them only briefly. This approach can have a performance impact. Inline value classes are a special type of class that avoids this performance impact. However, they can only contain values. 

To create an inline value class, use the `value` keyword and the `@JvmInline` annotation: 

```
@JvmInline
value class Email
```

The `@JvmInline` annotation instructs Kotlin to optimize the code when it is compiled. To learn more, see Annotations. 

An inline value class **must** have a single property initialized in the class header. 

Let's say that you want to create a class that collects an email address: 

156 

```
// The address property is initialized in the class header.
@JvmInline
value classEmail(val address: String)
funsendEmail(email: Email){
println("Sending email to ${email.address}")
}
funmain(){
val myEmail =Email("example@example.com")
sendEmail(myEmail)
// Sending email to example@example.com
}
```

In the example: 

- `Email` is an inline value class that has one property in the class header: `address` . 

- The `sendEmail()` function accepts objects with type `Email` and prints a string to the standard output. 

- The `main()` function: 

   - 

   - Creates an instance of the `Email` class called `myEmail` . 

- 

- Calls the `sendEmail()` function on the `myEmail` object. 

By using an inline value class, you make the class inlined and can use it directly in your code without creating an object. This can significantly reduce memory footprint and improve your code's runtime performance. 

For more information about inline value classes, see Inline value classes. 

## **Practice** 

## **Exercise 1** 

You manage a delivery service and need a way to track the status of packages. Create a sealed class called `DeliveryStatus` , containing data classes to represent the following statuses: `Pending` , `InTransit` , `Delivered` , `Canceled` . Complete the `DeliveryStatus` class declaration so that the code in the `main()` function runs successfully: 

157 

```
sealedclass// Write your code here
```

```
funprintDeliveryStatus(status: DeliveryStatus){
when(status){
is DeliveryStatus.Pending />{
println("The package is pending pickup from ${status.sender}.")
}
```

```
is DeliveryStatus.InTransit />{
println("The package is in transit and expected to arrive by
${status.estimatedDeliveryDate}.")
}
is DeliveryStatus.Delivered />{
println("The package was delivered to ${status.recipient} on ${status.deliveryDate}.")
}
is DeliveryStatus.Canceled />{
println("The delivery was canceled due to: ${status.reason}.")
}
}
}
funmain(){
val status1: DeliveryStatus = DeliveryStatus.Pending("Alice")
val status2: DeliveryStatus = DeliveryStatus.InTransit("2024-11-20")
val status3: DeliveryStatus = DeliveryStatus.Delivered("2024-11-18","Bob")
val status4: DeliveryStatus = DeliveryStatus.Canceled("Address not found")
```

```
printDeliveryStatus(status1)
// The package is pending pickup from Alice.
printDeliveryStatus(status2)
// The package is in transit and expected to arrive by 2024-11-20.
printDeliveryStatus(status3)
// The package was delivered to Bob on 2024-11-18.
printDeliveryStatus(status4)
// The delivery was canceled due to: Address not found.
}
```

158 

```
sealedclass DeliveryStatus {
dataclassPending(val sender: String):DeliveryStatus()
dataclassInTransit(val estimatedDeliveryDate: String):DeliveryStatus()
dataclassDelivered(val deliveryDate: String,val recipient: String):DeliveryStatus()
dataclassCanceled(val reason: String):DeliveryStatus()
}
funprintDeliveryStatus(status: DeliveryStatus){
when(status){
is DeliveryStatus.Pending />{
println("The package is pending pickup from ${status.sender}.")
}
is DeliveryStatus.InTransit />{
println("The package is in transit and expected to arrive by
${status.estimatedDeliveryDate}.")
}
is DeliveryStatus.Delivered />{
println("The package was delivered to ${status.recipient} on ${status.deliveryDate}.")
}
is DeliveryStatus.Canceled />{
println("The delivery was canceled due to: ${status.reason}.")
}
}
}
funmain(){
val status1: DeliveryStatus = DeliveryStatus.Pending("Alice")
val status2: DeliveryStatus = DeliveryStatus.InTransit("2024-11-20")
val status3: DeliveryStatus = DeliveryStatus.Delivered("2024-11-18","Bob")
val status4: DeliveryStatus = DeliveryStatus.Canceled("Address not found")
printDeliveryStatus(status1)
// The package is pending pickup from Alice.
printDeliveryStatus(status2)
// The package is in transit and expected to arrive by 2024-11-20.
printDeliveryStatus(status3)
// The package was delivered to Bob on 2024-11-18.
printDeliveryStatus(status4)
// The delivery was canceled due to: Address not found.
}
```

## **Exercise 2** 

In your program, you want to be able to handle different statuses and types of errors. You have a sealed class to capture the different statuses which are declared in data classes or objects. Complete the code below by creating an enum class called `Problem` that represents the different problem types: `NETWORK` , `TIMEOUT` , and `UNKNOWN` . 

159 

```
sealedclass Status {
dataobject Loading :Status()
dataclassError(val problem: Problem):Status(){
// Write your code here
}
dataclassOK(valdata: List<String>):Status()
}
funhandleStatus(status: Status){
when(status){
is Status.Loading />println("Loading//.")
is Status.OK />println("Data received: ${status.data}")
is Status.Error />when(status.problem){
            Status.Error.Problem.NETWORK />println("Network issue")
            Status.Error.Problem.TIMEOUT />println("Request timed out")
            Status.Error.Problem.UNKNOWN />println("Unknown error occurred")
}
}
}
funmain(){
val status1: Status = Status.Error(Status.Error.Problem.NETWORK)
val status2: Status = Status.OK(listOf("Data1","Data2"))
handleStatus(status1)
// Network issue
handleStatus(status2)
// Data received: [Data1, Data2]
}
```

160 

```
sealedclass Status {
dataobject Loading :Status()
dataclassError(val problem: Problem):Status(){
enumclass Problem {
            NETWORK,
            TIMEOUT,
            UNKNOWN
}
}
dataclassOK(valdata: List<String>):Status()
}
funhandleStatus(status: Status){
when(status){
is Status.Loading />println("Loading//.")
is Status.OK />println("Data received: ${status.data}")
is Status.Error />when(status.problem){
            Status.Error.Problem.NETWORK />println("Network issue")
            Status.Error.Problem.TIMEOUT />println("Request timed out")
            Status.Error.Problem.UNKNOWN />println("Unknown error occurred")
}
}
}
funmain(){
val status1: Status = Status.Error(Status.Error.Problem.NETWORK)
val status2: Status = Status.OK(listOf("Data1","Data2"))
handleStatus(status1)
// Network issue
handleStatus(status2)
// Data received: [Data1, Data2]
}
```

## **Next step** 

Intermediate: Properties 

## **Intermediate: Properties** 

In the beginner tour, you learned how properties are used to declare characteristics of class instances and how to access them. This chapter digs deeper into how properties work in Kotlin and explores other ways that you can use them in your code. 

## **Backing fields** 

In Kotlin, properties have default `get()` and `set()` functions, known as property accessors, which handle retrieving and modifying their values. While these default functions are not explicitly visible in the code, the compiler automatically generates them to manage property access behind the scenes. These accessors use a **backing field** to store the actual property value. 

Backing fields exist if either of the following is true: 

- You use the default `get()` or `set()` functions for the property. 

161 

- You try to access the property value in code by using the `field` keyword. 

`get()` and `set()` functions are also called getters and setters. 

For example, this code has the `category` property that has no custom `get()` or `set()` functions and therefore uses the default implementations: 

```
classContact(val id: Int,var email: String){
var category: String =""
}
```

Under the hood, this is equivalent to this pseudocode: 

```
classContact(val id: Int,var email: String){
var category: String =""
get()= field
set(value){
            field = value
}
}
```

In this example: 

- 

   - `""` 

   - The `get()` function retrieves the property value from the field: . 

- 

- `""` 

- The `set()` function accepts `value` as a parameter and assigns it to the field, where `value` is . 

Access to the backing field is useful when you want to add extra logic in your `get()` or `set()` functions without causing an infinite loop. For example, you have a `Person` class with a `name` property: 

```
class Person {
var name: String =""
}
```

You want to ensure that the first letter of the `name` property is capitalized, so you create a custom `set()` function that uses the `.replaceFirstChar()` and `.uppercase()` extension functions. However, if you refer to the property directly in your `set()` function, you create an infinite loop and see a `StackOverflowError` at runtime: 

```
class Person {
var name: String =""
set(value){
// This causes a runtime error
            name = value.replaceFirstChar{ firstChar /> firstChar.uppercase()}
}
}
funmain(){
val person =Person()
    person.name ="kodee"
println(person.name)
// Exception in thread "main" java.lang.StackOverflowError
}
```

To fix this, you can use the backing field in your `set()` function instead by referencing it with the `field` keyword: 

162 

```
class Person {
var name: String =""
set(value){
            field = value.replaceFirstChar{ firstChar /> firstChar.uppercase()}
}
}
funmain(){
val person =Person()
    person.name ="kodee"
println(person.name)
// Kodee
}
```

Backing fields are also useful when you want to add logging, send notifications when a property value changes, or use additional logic that compares the old and new property values. 

For more information, see Backing fields. 

## **Extension properties** 

Just like extension functions, there are also extension properties. Extension properties allow you to add new properties to existing classes without modifying their source code. However, extension properties in Kotlin do **not** have backing fields. This means that you need to write the `get()` and `set()` functions yourself. Additionally, the lack of a backing field means that they can't hold any state. 

To declare an extension property, write the name of the class that you want to extend followed by a `.` and the name of your property. Just like with normal class properties, you need to declare a type for your property. For example: 

```
val String.lastChar: Char
```

Extension properties are most useful when you want a property to contain a computed value without using inheritance. You can think of extension properties working like a function with only one parameter: the receiver. 

For example, let's say that you have a data class called `Person` with two properties: `firstName` and `lastName` . 

```
dataclassPerson(val firstName: String,val lastName: String)
```

You want to be able to access the person's full name without modifying the `Person` data class or inheriting from it. You can do this by creating an extension property with a custom `get()` function: 

```
dataclassPerson(val firstName: String,val lastName: String)
// Extension property to get the full name
val Person.fullName: String
get()="$firstName$lastName"
funmain(){
val person =Person(firstName ="John", lastName ="Doe")
// Use the extension property
println(person.fullName)
// John Doe
}
```

163 

Extension properties can't override existing properties of a class. 

Just like with extension functions, the Kotlin standard library uses extension properties widely. For example, see the `lastIndex` property for a `CharSequence` . 

## **Delegated properties** 

You already learned about delegation in the Classes and interfaces chapter. You can also use delegation with properties to delegate their property accessors to another object. This is useful when you have more complex requirements for storing properties that a simple backing field can't handle, such as storing values in a database table, browser session, or map. Using delegated properties also reduces boilerplate code because the logic for getting and setting your properties is contained only in the object that you delegate to. 

The syntax is similar to using delegation with classes but operates on a different level. Declare your property, followed by the `by` keyword and the object you want to delegate to. For example: 

```
val displayName: String by Delegate
```

Here, the delegated property `displayName` refers to the `Delegate` object for its property accessors. 

Every object you delegate to **must** have a `getValue()` operator function, which Kotlin uses to retrieve the value of the delegated property. If the property is mutable, it must also have a `setValue()` operator function for Kotlin to set its value. 

By default, the `getValue()` and `setValue()` functions have the following construction: 

```
operatorfungetValue(thisRef: Any?, property: KProperty>): String {}
```

```
operatorfunsetValue(thisRef: Any?, property: KProperty>, value: String){}
```

In these functions: 

- The `operator` keyword marks these functions as operator functions, enabling them to overload the `get()` and `set()` functions. 

- The `thisRef` parameter refers to the object **containing** the delegated property. By default, the type is set to `Any?` , but you may need to declare a more specific type. 

- The `property` parameter refers to the property whose value is accessed or changed. You can use this parameter to access information like the property's name or type. By default, the type is set to `KProperty<*>` but you can also use `Any?` . You don't need to worry about changing this in your code. 

The `getValue()` function has a return type of `String` by default, but you can adjust this if you want. 

The `setValue()` function has an additional parameter `value` , which is used to hold the new value that's assigned to the property. 

So, how does this look in practice? Suppose you want to have a computed property, like a user's display name, that is calculated only once because the operation is expensive and your application is performance-sensitive. You can use a delegated property to cache the display name so that it is only computed once but can be accessed anytime without performance impact. 

First, you need to create the object to delegate to. In this case, the object will be an instance of the `CachedStringDelegate` class: 

164 

```
class CachedStringDelegate {
var cachedValue: String?=null
}
```

The `cachedValue` property contains the cached value. Within the `CachedStringDelegate` class, add the behavior that you want from the `get()` function of the delegated property to the `getValue()` operator function body: 

```
class CachedStringDelegate {
var cachedValue: String?=null
operatorfungetValue(thisRef: Any?, property: Any?): String {
if(cachedValue /=null){
            cachedValue ="Default Value"
println("Computed and cached: $cachedValue")
}else{
println("Accessed from cache: $cachedValue")
}
return cachedValue /:"Unknown"
}
}
```

The `getValue()` function checks whether the `cachedValue` property is `null` . If it is, the function assigns the `"Default value"` and prints a string for logging purposes. If the `cachedValue` property has already been computed, the property isn't `null` . In this case, another string is printed for logging purposes. Finally, the function uses the Elvis operator to return the cached value or `"Unknown"` if the value is `null` . 

Now you can delegate the property that you want to cache ( `val displayName` ) to an instance of the `CachedStringDelegate` class: 

165 

```
class CachedStringDelegate {
var cachedValue: String?=null
operatorfungetValue(thisRef: User, property: Any?): String {
if(cachedValue /=null){
            cachedValue ="${thisRef.firstName}${thisRef.lastName}"
println("Computed and cached: $cachedValue")
}else{
println("Accessed from cache: $cachedValue")
}
return cachedValue /:"Unknown"
}
}
classUser(val firstName: String,val lastName: String){
val displayName: String byCachedStringDelegate()
}
funmain(){
val user =User("John","Doe")
// First access computes and caches the value
println(user.displayName)
// Computed and cached: John Doe
// John Doe
// Subsequent accesses retrieve the value from cache
println(user.displayName)
// Accessed from cache: John Doe
// John Doe
}
```

This example: 

- Creates a `User` class that has two properties in the header, `firstName` , and `lastName` , and one property in the class body, `displayName` . 

- Delegates the `displayName` property to an instance of the `CachedStringDelegate` class. 

- Creates an instance of the `User` class called `user` . 

- Prints the result of accessing the `displayName` property on the `user` instance. 

Note that in the `getValue()` function, the type for the `thisRef` parameter is narrowed from `Any?` type to the object type: `User` . This is so that the compiler can access the `firstName` and `lastName` properties of the `User` class. 

## **Standard delegates** 

The Kotlin standard library provides some useful delegates for you so you don't have to always create yours from scratch. If you use one of these delegates, you don't need to define `getValue()` and `setValue()` functions because the standard library automatically provides them. 

## **Lazy properties** 

To initialize a property only when it's first accessed, use a lazy property. The standard library provides the `Lazy` interface for delegation. 

166 

To create an instance of the `Lazy` interface, use the `lazy()` function by providing it with a lambda expression to execute when the `get()` function is called for the first time. Any further calls of the `get()` function return the same result that was provided on the first call. Lazy properties use the trailing lambda syntax to pass the lambda expression. 

For example: 

```
class Database {
funconnect(){
println("Connecting to the database//.")
}
funquery(sql: String): List<String>{
returnlistOf("Data1","Data2","Data3")
}
}
val databaseConnection: Database by lazy {
val db =Database()
    db.connect()
    db
}
funfetchData(){
valdata= databaseConnection.query("SELECT * FROM data")
println("Data: $data")
}
funmain(){
// First time accessing databaseConnection
fetchData()
// Connecting to the database//.
// Data: [Data1, Data2, Data3]
// Subsequent access uses the existing connection
fetchData()
// Data: [Data1, Data2, Data3]
}
```

In this example: 

- There is a `Database` class with `connect()` and `query()` member functions. 

- The `connect()` function prints a string to the console, and the `query()` function accepts an SQL query and returns a list. 

- There is a `databaseConnection` property that is a lazy property. 

- The lambda expression provided to the `lazy()` function: 

   - Creates an instance of the `Database` class. 

   - Calls the `connect()` member function on this instance ( `db` ). 

   - 

      - Returns the instance. 

- There is a `fetchData()` function that: 

   - Creates an SQL query by calling the `query()` function on the `databaseConnection` property. 

   - Assigns the SQL query to the `data` variable. 

   - Prints the `data` variable to the console. 

167 

- The `main()` function calls the `fetchData()` function. The first time it is called, the lazy property is initialized. The second time, the same result is returned as the first call. 

Lazy properties are useful not only when initialization is resource-intensive but also when a property might not be used in your code. Additionally, lazy properties are thread-safe by default, which is particularly beneficial if you are working in a concurrent environment. 

For more information, see Lazy properties. 

## **Observable properties** 

To monitor whether the value of a property changes, use an observable property. An observable property is useful when you want to detect a change in the property value and use this knowledge to trigger a reaction. The standard library provides the `Delegates` object for delegation. 

To create an observable property, you must first import `kotlin.properties.Delegates.observable` . Then, use the `observable()` function and provide it with a lambda expression to execute whenever the property changes. Just like with lazy properties, observable properties use the trailing lambda syntax to pass the lambda expression. 

For example: 

```
import kotlin.properties.Delegates.observable
class Thermostat {
var temperature: Double byobservable(20.0){ _, old, new />
if(new >25){
println("Warning: Temperature is too high! ($old°C /> $new°C)")
}else{
println("Temperature updated: $old°C /> $new°C")
}
}
}
funmain(){
val thermostat =Thermostat()
    thermostat.temperature =22.5
// Temperature updated: 20.0°C /> 22.5°C
    thermostat.temperature =27.0
// Warning: Temperature is too high! (22.5°C /> 27.0°C)
}
```

In this example: 

- There is a `Thermostat` class that contains an observable property: `temperature` . 

- The `observable()` function accepts `20.0` as a parameter and uses it to initialize the property. 

- The lambda expression provided to the `observable()` function: 

   - 

- Has three parameters: 

- 

   - `_` , which refers to the property itself. 

- 

   - `old` , which is the old value of the property. 

- 

      - `new` , which is the new value of the property. 

   - Checks if the `new` parameter is greater than `25` and, depending on the result, prints a string to console. 

- The `main()` function: 

168 

- Creates an instance of the `Thermostat` class called `thermostat` . 

- Updates the value of the `temperature` property of the instance to `22.5` , which triggers a print statement with a temperature update. 

- Updates the value of the `temperature` property of the instance to `27.0` , which triggers a print statement with a warning. 

Observable properties are useful not only for logging and debugging purposes. You can also use them for use cases like updating a UI or to perform additional checks, like verifying the validity of data. 

For more information, see Observable properties. 

## **Practice** 

## **Exercise 1** 

You manage an inventory system at a bookstore. The inventory is stored in a list where each item represents the quantity of a specific book. For example, `listOf(3, 0, 7, 12)` means the store has 3 copies of the first book, 0 of the second, 7 of the third, and 12 of the fourth. 

Write a function called `findOutOfStockBooks()` that returns a list of indices for all the books that are out of stock. 

## Hint 1 

Use the `indices` extension property from the standard library. 

## Hint 2 

You can use the `buildList()` function to create and manage a list instead of manually creating and returning a mutable list. The `buildList()` function uses a lambda with a receiver, which you learned about in earlier chapters. 

```
funfindOutOfStockBooks(inventory: List<Int>): List<Int>{
// Write your code here
}
funmain(){
val inventory =listOf(3,0,7,0,5)
println(findOutOfStockBooks(inventory))
// [1, 3]
}
```

169 

```
funfindOutOfStockBooks(inventory: List<Int>): List<Int>{
val outOfStockIndices = mutableListOf<Int>()
for(index in inventory.indices){
if(inventory[index]/=0){
            outOfStockIndices.add(index)
}
}
return outOfStockIndices
}
funmain(){
val inventory =listOf(3,0,7,0,5)
println(findOutOfStockBooks(inventory))
// [1, 3]
}
funfindOutOfStockBooks(inventory: List<Int>): List<Int>= buildList {
for(index in inventory.indices){
if(inventory[index]/=0){
add(index)
}
}
}
funmain(){
val inventory =listOf(3,0,7,0,5)
println(findOutOfStockBooks(inventory))
// [1, 3]
}
```

## **Exercise 2** 

You have a travel app that needs to display distances in both kilometers and miles. Create an extension property for the `Double` type called `asMiles` to convert a distance in kilometers to miles: 

The formula to convert kilometers to miles is `miles = kilometers * 0.621371` . 

## Hint 

Remember that extension properties need a custom `get()` function. 

```
val// Write your code here
funmain(){
val distanceKm =5.0
println("$distanceKm km is ${distanceKm.asMiles} miles")
// 5.0 km is 3.106855 miles
val marathonDistance =42.195
println("$marathonDistance km is ${marathonDistance.asMiles} miles")
// 42.195 km is 26.218757 miles
}
```

170 

```
val Double.asMiles: Double
get()=this*0.621371
```

```
funmain(){
val distanceKm =5.0
println("$distanceKm km is ${distanceKm.asMiles} miles")
// 5.0 km is 3.106855 miles
```

```
val marathonDistance =42.195
println("$marathonDistance km is ${marathonDistance.asMiles} miles")
// 42.195 km is 26.218757 miles
}
```

## **Exercise 3** 

You have a system health checker that can determine the state of a cloud system. However, the two functions it can run to perform a health check are performance intensive. Use lazy properties to initialize the checks so that the expensive functions are only run when needed: 

```
funcheckAppServer(): Boolean {
println("Performing application server health check//.")
returntrue
}
funcheckDatabase(): Boolean {
println("Performing database health check//.")
returnfalse
}
funmain(){
// Write your code here
when{
        isAppServerHealthy />println("Application server is online and healthy")
        isDatabaseHealthy />println("Database is healthy")
else/>println("System is offline")
}
// Performing application server health check//.
// Application server is online and healthy
}
```

171 

```
funcheckAppServer(): Boolean {
println("Performing application server health check//.")
returntrue
}
funcheckDatabase(): Boolean {
println("Performing database health check//.")
returnfalse
}
funmain(){
val isAppServerHealthy by lazy {checkAppServer()}
val isDatabaseHealthy by lazy {checkDatabase()}
when{
        isAppServerHealthy />println("Application server is online and healthy")
        isDatabaseHealthy />println("Database is healthy")
else/>println("System is offline")
}
// Performing application server health check//.
// Application server is online and healthy
}
```

## **Exercise 4** 

You're building a simple budget tracker app. The app needs to observe changes to the user's remaining budget and notify them whenever it goes below a certain threshold. You have a `Budget` class that is initialized with a `totalBudget` property that contains the initial budget amount. Within the class, create an observable property called `remainingBudget` that prints: 

- A warning when the value is lower than 20% of the initial budget. 

- 

- An encouraging message when the budget is increased from the previous value. 

```
import kotlin.properties.Delegates.observable
classBudget(val totalBudget: Int){
var remainingBudget: Int // Write your code here
}
funmain(){
val myBudget =Budget(totalBudget =1000)
    myBudget.remainingBudget =800
    myBudget.remainingBudget =150
// Warning: Your remaining budget (150) is below 20% of your total budget.
    myBudget.remainingBudget =50
// Warning: Your remaining budget (50) is below 20% of your total budget.
    myBudget.remainingBudget =300
// Good news: Your remaining budget increased to 300.
}
```

172 

```
import kotlin.properties.Delegates.observable
classBudget(val totalBudget: Int){
var remainingBudget: Int byobservable(totalBudget){ _, oldValue, newValue />
if(newValue < totalBudget *0.2){
println("Warning: Your remaining budget ($newValue) is below 20% of your total budget.")
}elseif(newValue > oldValue){
println("Good news: Your remaining budget increased to $newValue.")
}
}
}
funmain(){
val myBudget =Budget(totalBudget =1000)
    myBudget.remainingBudget =800
    myBudget.remainingBudget =150
// Warning: Your remaining budget (150) is below 20% of your total budget.
    myBudget.remainingBudget =50
// Warning: Your remaining budget (50) is below 20% of your total budget.
    myBudget.remainingBudget =300
// Good news: Your remaining budget increased to 300.
}
```

## **Next step** 

Intermediate: Null safety 

## **Intermediate: Null safety** 

In the beginner tour, you learned how to handle `null` values in your code. This chapter covers common use cases for null safety features and how to make the most of them. 

## **Smart casts and safe casts** 

Kotlin can sometimes infer the type without explicit declaration. When you tell Kotlin to treat a variable or object as if it belongs to a specific type, this process is called **casting** . When a type is automatically cast, like when it's inferred, it's called **smart casting** . 

## **is and !is operators** 

Before we explore how casting works, let's see how you can check if an object has a certain type. For this, you can use the `is` and `!is` operators with `when` or `if` conditional expressions: 

- 

   - `is` checks if the object has the type and returns a boolean value. 

- `!is` checks if the object **doesn't** have the type and returns a boolean value. 

For example: 

173 

```
funprintObjectType(obj: Any){
when(obj){
is Int />println("It's an Integer with value $obj")
!is Double />println("It's NOT a Double")
else/>println("Unknown type")
}
}
funmain(){
val myInt =42
val myDouble =3.14
val myList =listOf(1,2,3)
// The type is Int
printObjectType(myInt)
// It's an Integer with value 42
// The type is List, so it's NOT a Double.
printObjectType(myList)
// It's NOT a Double
// The type is Double, so the else branch is triggered.
printObjectType(myDouble)
// Unknown type
}
```

You've already seen an example of how to use a `when` conditional expression with the `is` and `!is` operators in the Open and other special classes chapter. 

## **as and as? operators** 

To explicitly cast an object to any other type, use the `as` operator. This includes casting from a nullable type to its non-nullable counterpart. If the cast isn't possible, the program crashes **at runtime** . This is why it's called the **unsafe** cast operator. 

```
funmain(){
val a: String?=null
val b = a as String
// Triggers an error at runtime
print(b)
}
```

To explicitly cast an object to a non-nullable type, but return `null` instead of throwing an error on failure, use the `as?` operator. Since the `as?` operator doesn't trigger an error on failure, it is called the **safe** operator. 

```
funmain(){
val a: String?=null
val b = a as? String
// Returns null value
print(b)
// null
}
```

174 

You can combine the `as?` operator with the Elvis operator `?:` to reduce several lines of code down to one. For example, the following `calculateTotalStringLength()` function calculates the total length of all strings provided in a mixed list: 

```
funcalculateTotalStringLength(items: List<Any>): Int {
var totalLength =0
for(item in items){
        totalLength +=if(item is String){
            item.length
}else{
0// Add 0 for non-String items
}
}
return totalLength
}
```

The example: 

- Uses the `totalLength` variable as a counter. 

- Uses a `for` loop to loop through every item in the list. 

- Uses an `if` and the `is` operator to check if the current item is a string: 

   - 

      - If it is, the string's length is added to the counter. 

   - If it is not, the counter isn't incremented. 

- Returns the final value of the `totalLength` variable. 

This code can be reduced to: 

```
funcalculateTotalStringLength(items: List<Any>): Int {
return items.sumOf{(it as? String).length /:0}
}
```

The example uses the `.sumOf()` extension function and provides a lambda expression that: 

- For each item in the list, performs a safe cast to `String` using `as?` . 

- Uses a safe call `?.` to access the `length` property if the call doesn't return a `null` value. 

- Uses the Elvis operator `?:` to return `0` if the safe call returns a `null` value. 

## **Null values and collections** 

In Kotlin, working with collections often involves handling `null` values and filtering out unnecessary elements. Kotlin has useful functions that you can use to write clean, efficient, and null-safe code when working with lists, sets, maps, and other types of collections. 

To filter `null` values from a list, use the `filterNotNull()` function: 

175 

```
funmain(){
val emails: List<String?>=listOf("alice@example.com",null,"bob@example.com",null,
"carol@example.com")
```

```
val validEmails = emails.filterNotNull()
```

```
println(validEmails)
// [alice@example.com, bob@example.com, carol@example.com]
}
```

If you want to perform filtering of `null` values directly when creating a list, use the `listOfNotNull()` function: 

```
funmain(){
val serverConfig =mapOf(
"appConfig.json"to"App Configuration",
"dbConfig.json"to"Database Configuration"
)
val requestedFile ="appConfig.json"
val configFiles =listOfNotNull(serverConfig[requestedFile])
println(configFiles)
// [App Configuration]
}
```

In both of these examples, if all items are `null` values, an empty list is returned. 

Kotlin also provides functions that you can use to find values in collections. If a value isn't found, they return `null` values instead of triggering an error: 

- 

   - `maxOrNull()` finds the highest value. If one doesn't exist, returns a `null` value. 

- 

- `minOrNull()` finds the lowest value. If one doesn't exist, returns a `null` value. 

For example: 

```
funmain(){
// Temperatures recorded over a week
val temperatures =listOf(15,18,21,21,19,17,16)
// Find the highest temperature of the week
val maxTemperature = temperatures.maxOrNull()
println("Highest temperature recorded: ${maxTemperature /: "No data"}")
// Highest temperature recorded: 21
// Find the lowest temperature of the week
val minTemperature = temperatures.minOrNull()
println("Lowest temperature recorded: ${minTemperature /: "No data"}")
// Lowest temperature recorded: 15
}
```

This example uses the Elvis operator `?:` to return a printed statement if the functions return a `null` value. 

The `maxOrNull()` , and `minOrNull()` functions are designed to be used with collections that **don't** contain `null` values. Otherwise, you can't tell whether the function couldn't find the desired value or whether it found a `null` value. 

176 

You can use the `singleOrNull()` function with a lambda expression to find a single item that matches a condition. If one doesn't exist or there are multiple items that match, the function returns a `null` value: 

```
funmain(){
// Temperatures recorded over a week
val temperatures =listOf(15,18,21,21,19,17,16)
// Check if there was exactly one day with 30 degrees
val singleHotDay = temperatures.singleOrNull{ it /=30}
println("Single hot day with 30 degrees: ${singleHotDay /: "None"}")
// Single hot day with 30 degrees: None
}
```

The `singleOrNull()` function is designed to be used with collections that **don't** contain `null` values. 

Some functions use a lambda expression to transform a collection and return `null` values if they can't fulfill their purpose. 

To transform a collection with a lambda expression and return the first value that isn't `null` , use the 

`firstNotNullOfOrNull()` function. If no such value exists, the function returns a `null` value: 

```
funmain(){
dataclassUser(val name: String?,val age: Int?)
val users =listOf(
User(null,25),
User("Alice",null),
User("Bob",30)
)
val firstNonNullName = users.firstNotNullOfOrNull{ it.name }
println(firstNonNullName)
// Alice
}
```

To use a lambda expression to process each collection item sequentially and create an accumulated value (or return a `null` value if the collection is empty) use the `reduceOrNull()` function: 

```
funmain(){
// Prices of items in a shopping cart
val itemPrices =listOf(20,35,15,40,10)
// Calculate the total price using the reduceOrNull() function
val totalPrice = itemPrices.reduceOrNull{ runningTotal, price /> runningTotal + price }
println("Total price of items in the cart: ${totalPrice /: "No items"}")
// Total price of items in the cart: 120
val emptyCart = listOf<Int>()
val emptyTotalPrice = emptyCart.reduceOrNull{ runningTotal, price /> runningTotal + price }
println("Total price of items in the empty cart: ${emptyTotalPrice /: "No items"}")
// Total price of items in the empty cart: No items
}
```

This example also uses the Elvis operator `?:` to return a printed statement if the function returns a `null` value. 

The `reduceOrNull()` function is designed to be used with collections that **don't** contain `null` values. 

177 

Explore Kotlin's standard library to find more functions that you can use to make your code safer. 

## **Early returns and the Elvis operator** 

In the beginner tour, you learned how to use early returns to stop your function from being processed further than a certain point. You can use the Elvis operator `?:` with an early return to check preconditions in a function. This 

approach is a great way to keep your code concise because you don't need to use nested checks. The reduced complexity of your code also makes it easier to maintain. For example: 

```
dataclassUser(
val id: Int,
val name: String,
// List of friend user IDs
val friends: List<Int>
)
// Function to get the number of friends for a user
fungetNumberOfFriends(users: Map<Int, User>, userId: Int): Int {
// Retrieves the user or return -1 if not found
val user = users[userId]/:return-1
// Returns the number of friends
return user.friends.size
}
funmain(){
// Creates some sample users
val user1 =User(1,"Alice",listOf(2,3))
val user2 =User(2,"Bob",listOf(1))
val user3 =User(3,"Charlie",listOf(1))
// Creates a map of users
val users =mapOf(1to user1,2to user2,3to user3)
println(getNumberOfFriends(users,1))
// 2
println(getNumberOfFriends(users,2))
// 1
println(getNumberOfFriends(users,4))
// -1
}
```

In this example: 

- There is a `User` data class that has properties for the user's `id` , `name` and list of friends. 

- The `getNumberOfFriends()` function: 

   - Accepts a map of `User` instances and a user ID as an integer. 

   - Accesses the value of the map of `User` instances with the provided user ID. 

   - Uses an Elvis operator to return the function early with the value of `-1` if the map value is a `null` value. 

   - Assigns the value found from the map to the `user` variable. 

   - Returns the number of friends in the user's friends list by using the `size` property. 

- The `main()` function: 

   - Creates three `User` instances. 

178 

- Creates a map of these `User` instances and assigns them to the `users` variable. 

- Calls the `getNumberOfFriends()` function on the `users` variable with values `1` and `2` that returns two friends for `"Alice"` and one friend for `"Bob"` . 

- Calls the `getNumberOfFriends()` function on the `users` variable with value `4` , which triggers an early return with a value of `-1` . 

You may notice that the code could be more concise without an early return. However, this approach needs multiple safe calls because the `users[userId]` might return a `null` value, making the code slightly harder to read: 

```
fungetNumberOfFriends(users: Map<Int, User>, userId: Int): Int {
// Retrieve the user or return -1 if not found
return users[userId].friends.size /:-1
}
```

Although this example checks only one condition with the Elvis operator, you can add multiple checks to cover any critical error paths. Early returns with the Elvis operator prevent your program from doing unnecessary work and make your code safer by stopping as soon as a `null` value or invalid case is detected. 

For more information about how you can use `return` in your code, see Returns and jumps. 

## **Practice** 

## **Exercise 1** 

You are developing a notification system for an app where users can enable or disable different types of notifications. Complete the `getNotificationPreferences()` function so that: 

1. The `validUser` variable uses the `as?` operator to check if `user` is an instance of the `User` class. If it isn't, return an empty list. 

2. The `userName` variable uses the Elvis `?:` operator to ensure that the user's name defaults to `"Guest"` if it is `null` . 

3. The final return statement uses the `.takeIf()` function to include email and SMS notification preferences only if they are enabled. 

4. The `main()` function runs successfully and prints the expected output. 

179 

The `takeIf()` function returns the original value if the given condition is true, otherwise it returns `null` . For example: 

```
funmain(){
// The user is logged in
val userIsLoggedIn =true
// The user has an active session
val hasSession =true
// Gives access to the dashboard if the user is logged in
// and has an active session
val canAccessDashboard = userIsLoggedIn.takeIf{ hasSession }
```

```
println(canAccessDashboard /:"Access denied")
// true
}
```

```
dataclassUser(val name: String?)
```

```
fungetNotificationPreferences(user: Any, emailEnabled: Boolean, smsEnabled: Boolean): List<String>{
val validUser =// Write your code here
val userName =// Write your code here
```

```
returnlistOfNotNull(/* Write your code here //)
}
```

```
funmain(){
val user1 =User("Alice")
val user2 =User(null)
val invalidUser ="NotAUser"
```

```
println(getNotificationPreferences(user1, emailEnabled =true, smsEnabled =false))
// [Email Notifications enabled for Alice]
println(getNotificationPreferences(user2, emailEnabled =false, smsEnabled =true))
// [SMS Notifications enabled for Guest]
println(getNotificationPreferences(invalidUser, emailEnabled =true, smsEnabled =true))
// []
}
```

180 

```
dataclassUser(val name: String?)
```

```
fungetNotificationPreferences(user: Any, emailEnabled: Boolean, smsEnabled: Boolean): List<String>{
val validUser = user as? User /:returnemptyList()
val userName = validUser.name /:"Guest"
returnlistOfNotNull(
"Email Notifications enabled for $userName".takeIf{ emailEnabled },
"SMS Notifications enabled for $userName".takeIf{ smsEnabled }
)
}
funmain(){
val user1 =User("Alice")
val user2 =User(null)
val invalidUser ="NotAUser"
println(getNotificationPreferences(user1, emailEnabled =true, smsEnabled =false))
// [Email Notifications enabled for Alice]
println(getNotificationPreferences(user2, emailEnabled =false, smsEnabled =true))
// [SMS Notifications enabled for Guest]
println(getNotificationPreferences(invalidUser, emailEnabled =true, smsEnabled =true))
// []
}
```

## **Exercise 2** 

You are working on a subscription-based streaming service where users can have multiple subscriptions, but **only one can be active at a time** . Complete the `getActiveSubscription()` function so that it uses the 

`singleOrNull()` function with a predicate to return a `null` value if there is more than one active subscription: 

```
dataclassSubscription(val name: String,val isActive: Boolean)
```

```
fungetActiveSubscription(subscriptions: List<Subscription>): Subscription?// Write your code here
funmain(){
val userWithPremiumPlan =listOf(
Subscription("Basic Plan",false),
Subscription("Premium Plan",true)
)
val userWithConflictingPlans =listOf(
Subscription("Basic Plan",true),
Subscription("Premium Plan",true)
)
```

```
println(getActiveSubscription(userWithPremiumPlan))
// Subscription(name=Premium Plan, isActive=true)
```

```
println(getActiveSubscription(userWithConflictingPlans))
// null
}
```

181 

```
dataclassSubscription(val name: String,val isActive: Boolean)
```

```
fungetActiveSubscription(subscriptions: List<Subscription>): Subscription?{
return subscriptions.singleOrNull{ subscription /> subscription.isActive }
}
funmain(){
val userWithPremiumPlan =listOf(
Subscription("Basic Plan",false),
Subscription("Premium Plan",true)
)
val userWithConflictingPlans =listOf(
Subscription("Basic Plan",true),
Subscription("Premium Plan",true)
)
println(getActiveSubscription(userWithPremiumPlan))
// Subscription(name=Premium Plan, isActive=true)
println(getActiveSubscription(userWithConflictingPlans))
// null
}
```

```
dataclassSubscription(val name: String,val isActive: Boolean)
```

```
fungetActiveSubscription(subscriptions: List<Subscription>): Subscription?=
    subscriptions.singleOrNull{ it.isActive }
```

```
funmain(){
val userWithPremiumPlan =listOf(
Subscription("Basic Plan",false),
Subscription("Premium Plan",true)
)
val userWithConflictingPlans =listOf(
Subscription("Basic Plan",true),
Subscription("Premium Plan",true)
)
```

```
println(getActiveSubscription(userWithPremiumPlan))
// Subscription(name=Premium Plan, isActive=true)
```

```
println(getActiveSubscription(userWithConflictingPlans))
// null
}
```

## **Exercise 3** 

You are working on a social media platform where users have usernames and account statuses. You want to see the list of currently active usernames. Complete the `getActiveUsernames()` function so that the `mapNotNull()` function has a predicate that returns the username if it is active or a `null` value if it isn't: 

182 

```
dataclassUser(val username: String,val isActive: Boolean)
```

```
fungetActiveUsernames(users: List<User>): List<String>{
return users.mapNotNull{/* Write your code here //}
}
funmain(){
val allUsers =listOf(
User("alice123",true),
User("bob_the_builder",false),
User("charlie99",true)
)
println(getActiveUsernames(allUsers))
// [alice123, charlie99]
}
```

## Just like in Exercise 1, you can use the `takeIf()` function when you check if the user is active. 

```
dataclassUser(val username: String,val isActive: Boolean)
```

```
fungetActiveUsernames(users: List<User>): List<String>{
return users.mapNotNull{ user />
if(user.isActive) user.username elsenull
}
}
funmain(){
val allUsers =listOf(
User("alice123",true),
User("bob_the_builder",false),
User("charlie99",true)
)
println(getActiveUsernames(allUsers))
// [alice123, charlie99]
}
```

```
dataclassUser(val username: String,val isActive: Boolean)
```

```
fungetActiveUsernames(users: List<User>): List<String>=
    users.mapNotNull{ user /> user.username.takeIf{ user.isActive }}
funmain(){
val allUsers =listOf(
User("alice123",true),
User("bob_the_builder",false),
User("charlie99",true)
)
println(getActiveUsernames(allUsers))
// [alice123, charlie99]
}
```

183 

## **Exercise 4** 

You are working on an inventory management system for an e-commerce platform. Before processing a sale, you need to check if the requested quantity of a product is valid based on the available stock. 

Complete the `validateStock()` function so that it uses early returns and the Elvis operator (where applicable) to check if: 

- The `requested` variable is `null` . 

- The `available` variable is `null` . 

- The `requested` variable is a negative value. 

- The amount in the `requested` variable is higher than in the `available` variable. 

In all of the above cases, the function must return early with the value of `-1` . 

```
funvalidateStock(requested: Int?, available: Int?): Int {
// Write your code here
}
funmain(){
println(validateStock(5,10))
// 5
println(validateStock(null,10))
// -1
println(validateStock(-2,10))
// -1
}
```

```
funvalidateStock(requested: Int?, available: Int?): Int {
val validRequested = requested /:return-1
val validAvailable = available /:return-1
if(validRequested <0)return-1
if(validRequested > validAvailable)return-1
return validRequested
}
funmain(){
println(validateStock(5,10))
// 5
println(validateStock(null,10))
// -1
println(validateStock(-2,10))
// -1
}
```

## **Next step** 

Intermediate: Libraries and APIs 

## **Intermediate: Libraries and APIs** 

184 

To get the most out of Kotlin, use existing libraries and APIs so you can spend more time coding and less time reinventing the wheel. 

Libraries distribute reusable code that simplifies common tasks. Within libraries, there are packages and objects that group related classes, functions, and utilities. Libraries expose APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) as a set of functions, classes, or properties that developers can use in their code. 

**==> picture [450 x 210] intentionally omitted <==**

Kotlin libraries and APIs 

Let's explore what's possible with Kotlin. 

## **The standard library** 

Kotlin has a standard library that provides essential types, functions, collections, and utilities to make your code concise and expressive. A large portion of the standard library (everything in the `kotlin` package) is readily available in any Kotlin file without the need to import it explicitly: 

```
funmain(){
val text ="emosewa si niltoK"
// Use the reversed() function from the standard library
val reversedText = text.reversed()
// Use the print() function from the standard library
print(reversedText)
// Kotlin is awesome
}
```

However, some parts of the standard library require an import before you can use them in your code. For example, if you want to use the standard library's time measurement features, you need to import the `kotlin.time` package. 

At the top of your file, add the `import` keyword followed by the package that you need: 

```
import kotlin.time.*
```

The asterisk `*` is a wildcard import that tells Kotlin to import everything within the package. You can't use the asterisk `*` with companion objects. Instead, you need to explicitly declare the members of a companion object that you want to use. 

185 

For example: 

```
import kotlin.time.Duration
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.hours
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.minutes
```

```
funmain(){
val thirtyMinutes: Duration =30.minutes
val halfHour: Duration =0.5.hours
println(thirtyMinutes /= halfHour)
// true
}
```

This example: 

- Imports the `Duration` class and the `hours` and `minutes` extension properties from its companion object. 

- Uses the `minutes` property to convert `30` into a `Duration` of 30 minutes. 

- Uses the `hours` property to convert `0.5` into a `Duration` of 30 minutes. 

- 

- Checks if both durations are equal and prints the result. 

## **Search before you build** 

Before you decide to write your own code, check the standard library to see if what you're looking for already exists. Here's a list of areas where the standard library already provides a number of classes, functions, and properties for you: 

- Collections 

- Sequences 

- String manipulation 

- Time management 

To learn more about what else is in the standard library, explore its API reference. 

## **Kotlin libraries** 

The standard library covers many common use cases, but there are some that it doesn't address. Fortunately, the Kotlin team and the rest of the community have developed a wide range of libraries to complement the standard library. For example, `kotlinx-datetime` helps you manage time across different platforms. 

You can find useful libraries on our search platform. To use them, you need to take extra steps, like adding a dependency or plugin. Each library has a GitHub repository with instructions on how to include it in your Kotlin projects. 

Once you add the library, you can import any package within it. Here's an example of how to import the `kotlinxdatetime` package to find the current time in New York: 

186 

```
import kotlinx.datetime.*
```

```
funmain(){
val now = Clock.System.now()// Get current instant
println("Current instant: $now")
val zone = TimeZone.of("America/New_York")
val localDateTime = now.toLocalDateTime(zone)
println("Local date-time in NY: $localDateTime")
}
```

This example: 

- Imports the `kotlinx.datetime` package. 

- Uses the `Clock.System.now()` function to create an instance of the `Instant` class that contains the current time and assigns the result to the `now` variable. 

- 

   - Prints the current time. 

- Uses the `TimeZone.of()` function to find the time zone for New York and assigns the result to the `zone` variable. 

- Calls the `.toLocalDateTime()` function on the instance containing the current time, with the New York time zone as an argument. 

- Assigns the result to the `localDateTime` variable. 

- Prints the time adjusted for the time zone in New York. 

To explore the functions and classes that this example uses in more detail, see the API reference. 

## **Opt in to APIs** 

Library authors may mark certain APIs as requiring opt-in before you can use them in your code. They usually do this when an API is still in development and may change in the future. If you don't opt in, you see warnings or errors like this: 

```
This declaration needs opt-in. Its usage should be marked with '@//.' or '@OptIn(//.)'
```

To opt in, write `@OptIn` followed by parentheses containing the class name that categorizes the API, appended by two colons `::` and `class` . 

For example, the `uintArrayOf()` function from the standard library falls under `@ExperimentalUnsignedTypes` , as shown in the API reference: 

```
@ExperimentalUnsignedTypes
inlinefunuintArrayOf(vararg elements: UInt): UIntArray
```

In your code, the opt-in looks like: 

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalUnsignedTypes/:class)
```

Here's an example that opts in to use the `uintArrayOf()` function to create an array of unsigned integers and modifies one of its elements: 

187 

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalUnsignedTypes/:class)
funmain(){
// Create an unsigned integer array
val unsignedArray: UIntArray =uintArrayOf(1u, 2u, 3u, 4u, 5u)
// Modify an element
    unsignedArray[2]= 42u
"
println("Updated array: ${unsignedArray.joinToString()})
// Updated array: 1, 2, 42, 4, 5
}
```

- This is the easiest way to opt in, but there are other ways. To learn more, see Opt in requirements. 

## **Practice** 

## **Exercise 1** 

You are developing a financial application that helps users calculate the future value of their investments. The formula to calculate compound interest is: 

Where: 

- `A` is the amount of money accumulated after interest (principal + interest). 

- `P` is the principal amount (the initial investment). 

- `r` is the annual interest rate (decimal). 

- `n` is the number of times interest is compounded per year. 

- `t` is the time the money is invested for (in years). 

Update the code to: 

1. Import the necessary functions from the `kotlin.math` package. 

2. Add a body to the `calculateCompoundInterest()` function that calculates the final amount after applying compound interest. 

```
// Write your code here
funcalculateCompoundInterest(P: Double, r: Double, n: Int, t: Int): Double {
// Write your code here
}
funmain(){
val principal =1000.0
val rate =0.05
val timesCompounded =4
val years =5
val amount =calculateCompoundInterest(principal, rate, timesCompounded, years)
println("The accumulated amount is: $amount")
// The accumulated amount is: 1282.0372317085844
}
```

188 

```
import kotlin.math.*
```

```
funcalculateCompoundInterest(P: Double, r: Double, n: Int, t: Int): Double {
return P *(1+ r / n).pow(n * t)
}
funmain(){
val principal =1000.0
val rate =0.05
val timesCompounded =4
val years =5
val amount =calculateCompoundInterest(principal, rate, timesCompounded, years)
println("The accumulated amount is: $amount")
// The accumulated amount is: 1282.0372317085844
}
```

## **Exercise 2** 

You want to measure the time it takes to perform multiple data processing tasks in your program. Update the code to add the correct import statements and functions from the `kotlin.time` package: 

```
// Write your code here
funmain(){
val timeTaken =/* Write your code here //{
// Simulate some data processing
valdata=List(1000){ it *2}
val filteredData =data.filter{ it %3/=0}
// Simulate processing the filtered data
val processedData = filteredData.map{ it /2}
println("Processed data")
}
println("Time taken: $timeTaken")// e.g. 16 ms
}
```

```
import kotlin.time.measureTime
funmain(){
val timeTaken = measureTime {
// Simulate some data processing
valdata=List(1000){ it *2}
val filteredData =data.filter{ it %3/=0}
// Simulate processing the filtered data
val processedData = filteredData.map{ it /2}
println("Processed data")
}
println("Time taken: $timeTaken")// e.g. 16 ms
}
```

189 

## **Exercise 3** 

There's a new feature in the standard library available in the latest Kotlin release. You want to try it out, but it requires opt-in. The feature falls under `@ExperimentalStdlibApi` . What should the opt-in look like in your code? 

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi/:class)
```

## **What's next?** 

Congratulations! You've completed the intermediate tour! Would you like to share your feedback about your experience? 

As a next step, check out our tutorials for popular Kotlin applications: 

- 

## Create a backend application with Spring Boot and Kotlin 

- 

- Create a cross-platform application for Android and iOS from scratch and: 

- 

   - Share business logic while keeping the UI native 

- 

- Share business logic and UI 

## **What's new in Kotlin 2.4.0** 

The Kotlin 2.4.0 release is out! Here are the main highlights: 

- **Language:** Stable context parameters, explicit backing fields, and multiple features for annotation use-site targets 

- 

   - **Standard library:** Stabilized support for the UUID API and support for checking sorted order 

- 

   - **Kotlin/JVM:** Support for Java 26 and annotations in metadata enabled by default 

- **Kotlin/Native:** Support for Swift packages as dependencies, updates on Swift export, and the CMS GC enabled by default 

- 

   - **Kotlin/Wasm:** Incremental compilation enabled by default and support for WebAssembly Component Model 

- 

   - **Kotlin/JS** : Support for value class export and ES2015 features in JS code inlining 

- 

   - **Gradle:** Compatibility with Gradle 9.5.0 

- 

   - **Maven:** Automatic alignment between Java and JVM target versions 

- **Kotlin compiler:** More consistent inline function behavior during `.klib` compilation 

For information about the Kotlin release cycle, see the Kotlin release process. 

## **Update to Kotlin 2.4.0** 

The latest version of Kotlin is included in the latest versions of Intelli IDEA and Android Studio. 

To update to the new Kotlin version, make sure your IDE is updated to the latest version and change the Kotlin version to 2.4.0 in your build scripts. 

190 

Stable 

## **New features** 

In previous Kotlin releases, several new features were introduced as Experimental. The following features have now graduated to Stable in Kotlin 2.4.0, so you no longer need to opt in to use them: 

- 

   - Context parameters, except for context arguments and callable references 

- 

   - `@all` meta-target for properties 

- 

   - 

   - New defaulting rules for use site annotation targets 

- 

   - Explicit backing fields 

- 

   - Stable UUID API in the common Kotlin standard library 

- 

   - New API for converting unsigned integers to `BigInteger` on the JVM 

- 

   - Support for checking sorted order 

- 

   - Support for value class export to JavaScript/TypeScript 

- 

   - Support for ES2015 features when inlining JS code 

- 

   - Maven: Automatic alignment between Java and JVM target versions 

- 

## Support for Maven Toolchains 

Support for using explicit backing fields in IntelliJ IDEA without the `-Xexplicit-backing-fields` compiler option will be available in 2026.1.4. 

## **New features** 

- 

   - Explicit context arguments for context parameters 

- 

   - Support for collection literals 

- 

   - Improved compile-time constants 

- 

   - Improved unused result checks for higher-order functions 

- 

   - New `@IntroducedAt` annotation to generate version-based overloads for optional parameters 

- 

   - New map fallback functions to distinguish `null` values and missing keys 

- 

   - Swift package import 

- 

   - Swift export goes Alpha with improved concurrency support 

- 

- Support for the WebAssembly Component Model 

## **Language** 

Kotlin 2.4.0 promotes context parameters, explicit backing fields, and annotation use-site targets features to Stable. This release also introduces explicit context arguments for context parameters. 

191 

## **Stable features** 

Kotlin 2.2.0 and 2.3.0 introduced a few language features as Experimental. We're happy to announce that the following language features are now Stable in this release: 

- Context parameters, except for context arguments and callable references 

- `@all` meta-target for properties 

- New defaulting rules for use-site annotation targets 

- Explicit backing fields 

See the full list of Kotlin language design features and proposals. 

## **No more deprecation warnings on the last segments of imports** 

In previous Kotlin versions, when a deprecated class was imported, the deprecation error was reported at the call site as well as at the import directive itself. As there's no way to suppress deprecation errors on imports, you may have worked around this by suppressing deprecation reports for the entire file or by using star imports. 

Since reporting the deprecation on the import of a called symbol isn't useful in most cases, Kotlin 2.4.0 doesn't issue a warning when the deprecated symbol is referenced in the last segment of the import directive. 

- For more information, see KT 30155. 

Experimental 

## **Explicit context arguments for context parameters** 

Kotlin 2.4.0 introduces explicit context arguments for context parameters. 

Kotlin 2.3.20 changed the overload resolution for context parameters. As a result, calls to overloads that differ only by context parameters can become ambiguous. 

You can now resolve this ambiguity by passing an explicit context argument at the call site. 

Here's an example: 

```
class EmailSender
class SmsSender
context(emailSender: EmailSender)
funsendNotification(){
println("Sent email notification")
}
context(smsSender: SmsSender)
funsendNotification(){
println("Sent SMS notification")
}
```

```
context(defaultEmailSender: EmailSender, defaultSmsSender: SmsSender)
funnotifyUser(){
```

```
// Selects the overload with the EmailSender context parameter
sendNotification(emailSender = defaultEmailSender)
```

```
// Selects the overload with the SmsSender context parameter
sendNotification(smsSender = defaultSmsSender)
}
```

192 

You can also use explicit context arguments instead of the `context()` function to reduce nesting and make some calls easier to read. If you need to use the same context arguments in multiple calls, use the `context()` function instead. 

This feature is Experimental. To opt in, add the following compiler option to your build file: 

**==> picture [525 x 334] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Gradle<br>kotlin {<br>    compilerOptions {<br>        freeCompilerArgs.add( "-Xexplicit-context-arguments" )<br>}<br>}<br>Maven<br><build><br><plugins><br><plugin><br><groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin//groupId><br><artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin//artifactId><br><configuration><br><args><br><arg -Xexplicit-context-arguments//arg><br>//args><br>//configuration><br>//plugin><br>//plugins><br>//build><br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


For more information, see the feature's KEEP. 

## Experimental 

## **Support for collection literals** 

Kotlin 2.4.0 introduces experimental support for collection literals. You can now create collections in a simpler and more concise way using brackets `[]` . 

For example: 

```
funmain(){
// Mutable list with explicit type declaration
// val shapes: MutableList<String> = mutableListOf("triangle", "square", "circle")
```

```
// Mutable list with brackets syntax
val shapes: MutableList<String>=["triangle","square","circle"]
println(shapes)
// [triangle, square, circle]
}
```

Currently, collection literals can't be used to construct collections defined in Java. For more information, - see KT 80494. 

193 

If the compiler doesn't have enough information to infer the collection type, it defaults to the `List` type: 

```
funmain(){
val fruit =["apple","banana","cherry"]
println(fruit)
// [apple, banana, cherry]
}
```

You can also declare custom `operator fun of` functions to use bracket syntax with your own types. For example, if you have the following `DoubleMatrix` class: 

```
classDoubleMatrix(varargval rows: Row){
companionobject{
operatorfunof(vararg rows: Row)=DoubleMatrix(*rows)
}
classRow(varargval elements: Double){
companionobject{
operatorfunof(vararg elements: Double)=Row(*elements)
}
}
}
```

You can create an `identityMatrix` class instance like this: 

```
funmain(){
val identityMatrix: DoubleMatrix =[
[1.0,0.0,0.0],
[0.0,1.0,0.0],
[0.0,0.0,1.0],
]
}
```

In this example, the compiler translates the nested collection literals into calls to the corresponding `operator fun of` functions. The compiler resolves these calls recursively and uses the expected types to choose the correct overloads. 

This feature is Experimental. To opt in, add the following compiler option to your build file: 

**Gradle** 

```
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xcollection-literals")
}
}
```

194 

## **Maven** 

```
<build>
<plugins>
<plugin>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin//groupId>
<artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin//artifactId>
<configuration>
<args>
<arg-Xcollection-literals//arg>
//args>
//configuration>
//plugin>
//plugins>
//build>
```

For more information, see the feature's KEEP. 

## Experimental 

## **Improved compile-time constants** 

- Kotlin 2.4.0 brings experimental improvements to compile time constants, making support for numeric and string types more consistent and easier to use. These improvements include support for: 

- Unsigned type operations. 

- Standard library functions for strings, like `.lowercase()` , `.uppercase()` , and `.trim()` functions. 

- Evaluation of the `.name` property of enum constants and the `KCallable` interface. 

To make it clear which functions are evaluated at compile time, Kotlin 2.4.0 introduces the `IntrinsicConstEvaluation` annotation. Some functions are evaluated at compile-time but don't have the annotation yet. Later releases will add the annotation to the remaining functions. For a list of supported functions, see the KEEP appendix. 

This feature is Experimental. To opt in, add the following compiler option to your build file: 

**Gradle** 

```
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        freeCompilerArgs.add("-XIntrinsic-const-evaluation")
}
}
```

195 

## **Maven** 

```
<build>
<plugins>
<plugin>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin//groupId>
<artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin//artifactId>
<configuration>
<args>
<arg-XIntrinsic-const-evaluation//arg>
//args>
//configuration>
//plugin>
//plugins>
//build>
```

For more information, see the feature's KEEP. 

## Experimental 

## **Improved unused result checks for higher-order functions** 

Kotlin 2.4.0 introduces a new Experimental `returnsResultOf()` contract to improve the unused return value checker. 

This contract enables the checker to distinguish between unused results that can be ignored and meaningful unused results from higher-order functions that return the result of a lambda, such as the `let` scope function. 

Kotlin contracts are Experimental. To opt in, add the `@OptIn(ExperimentalContracts::class)` annotation when declaring a function with a contract. 

To use this feature, add `returnsResultOf()` to the function's contract: 

```
import kotlin.contracts.ExperimentalContracts
import kotlin.contracts.contract
@OptIn(ExperimentalContracts/:class)
inlinefun<T, R> T.customLet(block:(T)/> R): R {
    contract {
returnsResultOf(block)
}
returnblock(this)
}
```

Here's an example that uses a custom `.customLet()` function with a nullable value: 

```
funhandleNullablePackageName(packageName: String?, builder: StringBuilder){
// The checker doesn't report a warning
// because the return value of the append() function can be ignored
    packageName.customLet{ builder.append(it)}
```

```
// The checker reports a warning because the returned string is unused
    packageName.customLet{"kotlin.$it"}
}
```

196 

The unused return value checker is Experimental and must be enabled to report unused return values. For more information about enabling and configuring the checker, see Unused return value checker. 

## **How to enable** 

The `returnsResultOf()` contract is Experimental. Be aware that using it produces pre-release binaries that earlier Kotlin compiler versions can't read. To opt in, add the following compiler option to your build file: 

**==> picture [525 x 358] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Gradle<br>// build.gradle(.kts)<br>kotlin {<br>    compilerOptions {<br>        freeCompilerArgs.add( "-Xallow-returns-result-of" )<br>}<br>}<br>Maven<br>///- pom.xml //><br><build><br><plugins><br><plugin><br><groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin//groupId><br><artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin//artifactId><br><configuration><br><args><br><arg -Xallow-returns-result-of//arg><br>//args><br>//configuration><br>//plugin><br>//plugins><br>//build><br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


## Experimental 

## **New** **`@IntroducedAt` annotation to generate version-based overloads for optional parameters** 

Kotlin 2.4.0 introduces the `@IntroducedAt` annotation for preserving binary compatibility when adding new optional parameters to published APIs. 

Previously, adding optional parameters to a function often required using `@JvmOverloads` , which can generate more overloads than needed. Alternatively, preserving binary compatibility required you to keep older signatures as hidden deprecated overloads. 

With the `@IntroducedAt` annotation, you can annotate newly added optional parameters with the version in which they were introduced. The compiler uses this information to automatically generate the corresponding hidden overloads. 

This annotation is Experimental. To opt in, use the `@OptIn(ExperimentalVersionOverloading::class)` annotation. 

Here's an example: 

197 

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalVersionOverloading/:class)
funButton(
    label: String ="",
    color: Color = DefaultColor,
@IntroducedAt("1.1") borderColor: Color = DefaultBorderColor,
@IntroducedAt("1.2") borderStyle: Style = DefaultBorderStyle,
@IntroducedAt("1.2") borderWidth: Int =1,
    onClick:()/> Unit
){
// Function body
}
```

In this example, the compiler generates hidden overloads for the older versions of the `Button()` function. 

Since both `@IntroducedAt` and `@JvmOverloads` generate overloads, using them together can cause conflicting overloads. If you use both annotations, the compiler reports a warning. If you suppress the warning, the compiler prioritizes overloads generated from the `@IntroducedAt` annotation. 

## **Standard library** 

Kotlin 2.4.0 stabilizes support for UUIDs in the common Kotlin standard library. It also adds new extension functions for converting unsigned integers to `BigInteger` on the JVM and support for checking sorted order. 

## **Stable UUID API in the common Kotlin standard library** 

Kotlin 2.0.20 introduced a class for generating UUIDs (universally unique identifiers) and added support for converting between Kotlin and Java UUIDs. Later releases gradually improved this experimental feature by adding support for: 

- 

   - Comparing UUIDs with `<` and `>` operators 

- 

   - Parsing UUIDs from hex-and-dash and plain text formats 

- 

- Returning `null` when parsing invalid UUIDs. 

In Kotlin 2.4.0, the `kotlin.uuid.Uuid` API becomes Stable. The only exceptions are the functions for generating V4 and V7 UUIDs, which remain Experimental and still require opt-in. 

For more information about how to work with UUIDs, see UUIDs. 

## **Support for checking sorted order** 

Kotlin 2.4.0 adds new extension functions for checking sorted order in iterables, arrays, and sequences. 

This includes the following extension functions: 

- `.isSorted()` 

- `.isSortedDescending()` 

- `.isSortedWith(comparator)` 

- `.isSortedBy(selector)` 

- `.isSortedByDescending(selector)` 

You can use these extension functions to check whether elements are already sorted, without sorting them again or creating your own helper functions. They return `true` if the elements are in the specified order, or if there are 

198 

fewer than two elements, and `false` otherwise. These functions stop as soon as they encounter an out-of-order pair, which makes them efficient for large inputs. 

Here's an example of checking sorted order with `.isSorted()` and `.isSortedBy()` functions: 

```
dataclassUser(val name: String,val age: Int)
funmain(){
val numbers =listOf(1,2,3,4)
println(numbers.isSorted())
// true
val users =listOf(
User("Alice",24),
User("Bob",31),
User("Charlie",29),
)
println(users.isSortedBy(User/:age))
// false
}
```

## **New API for converting unsigned integers to** **`BigInteger` on the JVM** 

Kotlin 2.4.0 introduces the `UInt.toBigInteger()` and `ULong.toBigInteger()` extension functions on the JVM. 

Previously, converting `UInt` and `ULong` values to `BigInteger` required string-based workarounds or custom conversion logic. Starting with Kotlin 2.4.0, you can now use `.toBigInteger()` to convert unsigned integer values directly to `BigInteger` . 

Here's an example: 

```
funmain(){
val unsignedLong = Long.MAX_VALUE.toULong()+ 1uL
val unsignedInt = UInt.MAX_VALUE
println(unsignedLong.toBigInteger())
// 9223372036854775808
println(unsignedInt.toBigInteger())
// 4294967295
//sampleEnd
}
```

## Experimental 

## **New map fallback functions to distinguish** **`null` values and missing keys** 

Kotlin 2.4.0 adds new variants of the existing `.getOrElse()` and `.getOrPut()` map extension functions for maps with nullable values. These functions retrieve a value for a key or use a default value as a fallback. For maps with nullable values, the new variants let you choose whether a stored `null` value behaves like a missing key or an existing value, and they make that choice clear in their function names. 

The new extension functions include the following: 

- `.getOrElseIfNull(key, defaultValue)` and `.getOrPutIfNull(key, defaultValue)` , which return the 

- default value if the key is missing or has a `null` value, similar to the existing `.getOrElse()` and `.getOrPut()` functions. 

199 

- `.getOrElseIfMissing(key, defaultValue)` and `.getOrPutIfMissing(key, defaultValue)` , which return 

- the default value only when the map doesn't contain the specified key. 

These APIs are Experimental and require opt-in with the `@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi::class)` annotation. 

Here's an example that demonstrates the difference between `.getOrPutIfNull()` and `.getOrPutIfMissing()` when the key exists with a `null` value: 

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi/:class)
funmain(){
val mapForNull = mutableMapOf<String, String?>("user"tonull)
val mapForMissing = mutableMapOf<String, String?>("user"tonull)
// Replaces the value if "user" has a null value
    mapForNull.getOrPutIfNull("user"){"default_user"}
println(mapForNull)
// {user=default_user}
// Keeps the null value because "user" exists in the map
    mapForMissing.getOrPutIfMissing("user"){"default_user"}
println(mapForMissing)
// {user=null}
}
```

You can also use the `.getOrElseIfMissing()` and `.getOrPutIfMissing()` functions for caches that store nullable values. If `defaultValue` returns `null` , the map stores it and doesn't call `defaultValue` again for the same key. 

Here's an example: 

200 

