```
// Java
publicvoidobjectIsInstance(){
var numbers =newArrayList/>();
    numbers.add(null);
    numbers.add(1);
    numbers.add("two");
    numbers.add(3.0);
    numbers.add("four");
System.out.println("All String elements in upper case:");
    numbers.stream().filter(it /> it instanceofString)
.forEach( it />System.out.println(((String) it).toUpperCase()));
}
```

In Kotlin, you just call `filterIsInstance<NEEDED_TYPE>()` on your collection, and the type cast is done by Smart casts: 

```
// Kotlin
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val numbers =listOf(null,1,"two",3.0,"four")
println("All String elements in upper case:")
    numbers.filterIsInstance<String>().forEach{
println(it.uppercase())
}
}
```

## **Test predicates** 

Some tasks require you to check whether all, none, or any elements satisfy a condition. In Java, you can do all of these checks via the Stream API functions `allMatch()` , `noneMatch()` , and `anyMatch()` : 

```
// Java
publicvoidtestPredicates(){
var numbers =List.of("one","two","three","four");
System.out.println(numbers.stream().noneMatch(it /> it.endsWith("e")));// false
System.out.println(numbers.stream().anyMatch(it /> it.endsWith("e")));// true
System.out.println(numbers.stream().allMatch(it /> it.endsWith("e")));// false
}
```

In Kotlin, the extension functions `none()` , `any()` , and `all()` are available for every Iterable object: 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
println(numbers.none{ it.endsWith("e")})
println(numbers.any{ it.endsWith("e")})
println(numbers.all{ it.endsWith("e")})
}
```

Learn more about test predicates. 

901 

## **Collection transformation operations** 

## **Zip elements** 

In Java, you can make pairs from elements with the same positions in two collections by iterating simultaneously over them: 

```
// Java
publicvoidzip(){
var colors =List.of("red","brown");
var animals =List.of("fox","bear","wolf");
for(int i =0; i <Math.min(colors.size(), animals.size()); i/+){
String animal = animals.get(i);
System.out.println("The "+ animal.substring(0,1).toUpperCase()
+ animal.substring(1)+" is "+ colors.get(i));
}
}
```

If you want to do something more complex than just printing pairs of elements into the output, you can use Records. In the example above, the record would be `record AnimalDescription(String animal, String color) {}` . 

In Kotlin, use the `zip()` function to do the same thing: 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val colors =listOf("red","brown")
val animals =listOf("fox","bear","wolf")
println(colors.zip(animals){ color, animal />
"The ${animal.replaceFirstChar{ it.uppercase()}} is $color"})
}
```

`zip()` returns the List of Pair objects. 

If collections have different sizes, the result of `zip()` is the smaller size. The last elements of the larger collection are not included in the result. 

## **Associate elements** 

In Java, you can use the Stream API to associate elements with characteristics: 

```
// Java
publicvoidassociate(){
var numbers =List.of("one","two","three","four");
var wordAndLength = numbers.stream()
.collect(toMap(number /> number,String/:length));
System.out.println(wordAndLength);
}
```

In Kotlin, use the `associate()` function: 

902 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val numbers =listOf("one","two","three","four")
println(numbers.associateWith{ it.length })
}
```

## **What's next?** 

- Visit Kotlin Koans – complete exercises to learn Kotlin syntax. Each exercise is created as a failing unit test and your job is to make it pass. 

- Look through other Kotlin idioms. 

- Learn how to convert existing Java code to Kotlin with the Java to Kotlin converter. 

- Discover collections in Kotlin. 

If you have a favorite idiom, we invite you to share it by sending a pull request. 

## **Nullability in Java and Kotlin** 

Nullability is the ability of a variable to hold a `null` value. When a variable contains `null` , an attempt to dereference the variable leads to a `NullPointerException` . There are many ways to write code in order to minimize the probability of receiving null pointer exceptions. 

This guide covers differences between Java's and Kotlin's approaches to handling possibly nullable variables. It will help you migrate from Java to Kotlin and write your code in authentic Kotlin style. 

The first part of this guide covers the most important difference – support for nullable types in Kotlin and how Kotlin processes types from Java code. The second part, starting from Checking the result of a function call, examines several specific cases to explain certain differences. 

## Learn more about null safety in Kotlin. 

## **Support for nullable types** 

The most important difference between Kotlin's and Java's type systems is Kotlin's explicit support for nullable types. It is a way to indicate which variables can possibly hold a `null` value. If a variable can be `null` , it's not safe to call a method on the variable because this can cause a `NullPointerException` . Kotlin prohibits such calls at compile time and thereby prevents lots of possible exceptions. At runtime, objects of nullable types and objects of non-nullable types are treated the same: A nullable type isn't a wrapper for a non-nullable type. All checks are performed at compile time. That means there's almost no runtime overhead for working with nullable types in Kotlin. 

We say "almost" because, even though intrinsic checks are generated, their overhead is minimal. 

In Java, if you don't write null checks, methods may throw a `NullPointerException` : 

903 

```
// Java
intstringLength(String a){
return a.length();
}
voidmain(){
stringLength(null);// Throws a `NullPointerException`
}
```

This call will have the following output: 

```
java.lang.NullPointerException:Cannot invoke "String.length()" because "a" is null
    at test.java.Nullability.stringLength(Nullability.java:8)
    at test.java.Nullability.main(Nullability.java:12)
    at java.base/java.util.ArrayList.forEach(ArrayList.java:1511)
    at java.base/java.util.ArrayList.forEach(ArrayList.java:1511)
```

In Kotlin, all regular types are non-nullable by default unless you explicitly mark them as nullable. If you don't expect `a` to be `null` , declare the `stringLength()` function as follows: 

```
// Kotlin
funstringLength(a: String)= a.length
```

The parameter `a` has the `String` type, which in Kotlin means it must always contain a `String` instance and it cannot contain `null` . Nullable types in Kotlin are marked with a question mark `?` , for example, `String?` . The situation with a `NullPointerException` at runtime is impossible if `a` is `String` because the compiler enforces the rule that all arguments of `stringLength()` not be `null` . 

An attempt to pass a `null` value to the `stringLength(a: String)` function will result in a compile-time error, "Null can not be a value of a non-null type String": 

**==> picture [524 x 141] intentionally omitted <==**

Passing null to a non-nullable function error 

If you want to use this function with any arguments, including `null` , use a question mark after the argument type `String?` and check inside the function body to ensure that the value of the argument is not `null` : 

```
// Kotlin
funstringLength(a: String?): Int =if(a /=null) a.length else0
```

After the check is passed successfully, the compiler treats the variable as if it were of the non-nullable type `String` in the scope where the compiler performs the check. 

If you don't perform this check, the code will fail to compile with the following message: "Only safe (?.) or nonnullable asserted (!!.) calls are allowed on a nullable receiver of type String?". 

904 

You can write the same shorter – use the safe-call operator ?. (If-not-null shorthand), which allows you to combine a null check and a method call into a single operation: 

```
// Kotlin
funstringLength(a: String?): Int = a.length /:0
```

## **Platform types** 

In Java, you can use annotations showing whether a variable can or cannot be `null` . Such annotations aren't part of the standard library, but you can add them separately. For example, you can use JetBrains annotations 

`@Nullable` and `@NotNull` (from the `org.jetbrains.annotations` package), annotations from JSpecify ( `org.jspecify.annotations` ), or from Eclipse ( `org.eclipse.jdt.annotation` ). Kotlin can recognize such annotations when you're calling Java code from Kotlin code and will treat types according to their annotations. 

If your Java code doesn't have these annotations, then Kotlin will treat Java types as platform types. But since Kotlin doesn't have nullability information for such types, its compiler will allow all operations on them. You will need to decide whether to perform null checks, because: 

- Just as in Java, you'll get a `NullPointerException` if you try to perform an operation on `null` . 

- The compiler won't highlight any redundant null checks, which it normally does when you perform a null-safe operation on a value of a non-nullable type. 

Learn more about calling Java from Kotlin in regard to null-safety and platform types. 

## **Support for definitely non-nullable types** 

In Kotlin, if you want to override a Java method that contains `@NotNull` as an argument, you need Kotlin's definitely non-nullable types. 

For example, consider this `load()` method in Java: 

```
importorg.jetbrains.annotations.*;
publicinterfaceGame<T>{
publicTsave(T x){}
@NotNull
publicTload(@NotNullT x){}
}
```

To override the `load()` method in Kotlin successfully, you need `T1` to be declared as definitely non-nullable ( `T1 & Any` ): 

```
interface ArcadeGame<T1>: Game<T1>{
overridefunsave(x: T1): T1
// T1 is definitely non-nullable
overridefunload(x: T1 & Any): T1 & Any
}
```

Learn more about generic types that are definitely non-nullable. 

905 

## **Checking the result of a function call** 

One of the most common situations where you need to check for `null` is when you obtain a result from a function call. 

In the following example, there are two classes, `Order` and `Customer` . `Order` has a reference to an instance of `Customer` . The `findOrder()` function returns an instance of the `Order` class, or `null` if it can't find the order. The objective is to process the customer instance of the retrieved order. 

Here are the classes in Java: 

```
//Java
recordOrder(Customer customer){}
recordCustomer(String name){}
```

In Java, call the function and do an if-not-null check on the result to proceed with the dereferencing of the required property: 

```
// Java
Order order =findOrder();
if(order /=null){
processCustomer(order.getCustomer());
}
```

Converting the Java code above to Kotlin code directly results in the following: 

```
// Kotlin
dataclassOrder(val customer: Customer)
dataclassCustomer(val name: String)
val order =findOrder()
// Direct conversion
if(order /=null){
processCustomer(order.customer)
}
```

Use the safe-call operator `?.` (If-not-null shorthand) in combination with any of the scope functions from the standard library. The `let` function is usually used for this: 

```
// Kotlin
val order =findOrder()
order.let{
processCustomer(it.customer)
}
```

Here is a shorter version of the same: 

```
// Kotlin
findOrder().customer.let(/:processCustomer)
```

906 

## **Default values instead of null** 

Checking for `null` is often used in combination with setting the default value in case the null check is successful. 

The Java code with a null check: 

```
// Java
Order order =findOrder();
if(order /=null){
    order =newOrder(newCustomer("Antonio"))
}
```

To express the same in Kotlin, use the Elvis operator (If-not-null-else shorthand): 

```
// Kotlin
val order =findOrder()/:Order(Customer("Antonio"))
```

## **Functions returning a value or null** 

In Java, you need to be careful when working with list elements. You should always check whether an element exists at an index before you attempt to use the element: 

```
// Java
var numbers =newArrayList<Integer>();
numbers.add(1);
numbers.add(2);
System.out.println(numbers.get(0));
//numbers.get(5) // Exception!
```

The Kotlin standard library often provides functions whose names indicate whether they can possibly return a `null` value. This is especially common in the collections API: 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
// The same code as in Java:
val numbers =listOf(1,2)
println(numbers[0])// Can throw IndexOutOfBoundsException if the collection is empty
//numbers.get(5)     // Exception!
```

```
// More abilities:
println(numbers.firstOrNull())
println(numbers.getOrNull(5))// null
}
```

## **Aggregate operations** 

When you need to get the biggest element or `null` if there are no elements, in Java you would use the Stream API: 

907 

```
// Java
var numbers =newArrayList<Integer>();
var max = numbers.stream().max(Comparator.naturalOrder()).orElse(null);
System.out.println("Max: "+ max);
```

In Kotlin, use aggregate operations: 

```
// Kotlin
val numbers = listOf<Int>()
println("Max: ${numbers.maxOrNull()}")
```

Learn more about collections in Java and Kotlin. 

## **Casting types safely** 

When you need to safely cast a type, in Java you would use the `instanceof` operator and then check how well it worked: 

```
// Java
intgetStringLength(Object y){
return y instanceofString x ? x.length():-1;
}
voidmain(){
System.out.println(getStringLength(1));// Prints `-1`
}
```

To avoid exceptions in Kotlin, use the safe cast operator `as?` , which returns `null` on failure: 

```
// Kotlin
funmain(){
println(getStringLength(1))// Prints `-1`
}
fungetStringLength(y: Any): Int {
val x: String?= y as? String // null
return x.length /:-1// Returns -1 because `x` is null
}
```

In the Java example above, the function `getStringLength()` returns a result of the primitive type `int` . To make it return `null` , you can use the boxed type `Integer` . However, it's more resource-efficient to make such functions return a negative value and then check the value – you would do the check anyway, but no additional boxing is performed this way. 

When migrating Java code to Kotlin, you may want to initially use the regular cast operator `as` with a nullable type to preserve the original semantics of your code. However, we recommend adapting your code to use the safe cast operator `as?` for a safer and more idiomatic approach. For example, if you have the following Java code: 

908 

```
publicclassUserProfile{
Object data;
publicstaticStringgetUsername(UserProfile profile){
if(profile /=null){
returnnull;
}
return(String) profile.data;
}
}
```

Migrating this directly with the `as` operator gives you: 

```
classUserProfile(vardata: Any?=null)
fungetUsername(profile: UserProfile?): String?{
if(profile /=null){
returnnull
}
return profile.data as String?
}
```

Here, `profile.data` is cast to a nullable string using `as String?` . 

We recommend going one step further and using `as? String` to safely cast the value. This approach returns `null` on failure instead of throwing a `ClassCastException` : 

```
classUserProfile(vardata: Any?=null)
fungetUsername(profile: UserProfile?): String?=
  profile.data as? String
```

This version replaces the `if` expression with the safe call operator `?.` , which safely accesses the data property before attempting the cast. 

## **What's next?** 

- Browse other Kotlin idioms. 

- Learn how to convert existing Java code to Kotlin with the Java-to-Kotlin (J2K) converter. 

- 

- Check out other migration guides: 

- Strings in Java and Kotlin 

- 

- Collections in Java and Kotlin 

If you have a favorite idiom, feel free to share it with us by sending a pull request! 

## **Standard input** 

Java Scanner is a slow tool. Use it only when you need the specific functionalities it offers. Otherwise, it's generally preferable to use Kotlin's `readln()` function to read standard input. 

909 

To read from the standard input, Java provides the `Scanner` class. Kotlin offers two main ways to read from the standard input: the `Scanner` class, similar to Java, and the `readln()` function. 

## **Read from the standard input with Java Scanner** 

In Java, the standard input is typically accessed through the `System.in` object. You need to import the `Scanner` class, create an object, and use methods like `.nextLine()` and `.nextInt()` to read different data types: 

```
//Java implementation
importjava.util.Scanner;
publicclassMain{
publicstaticvoidmain(String[] args){
Scanner scanner =newScanner(System.in);
// Reads a single line of input. For example: Hi there!
System.out.print("Enter a line: ");
String line = scanner.nextLine();
System.out.println("You entered: "+ line);
// You entered: Hi there!
// Reads an integer. For example: 08081990
System.out.print("Enter an integer: ");
int number = scanner.nextInt();
System.out.println("You entered: "+ number);
// You entered: 08081990
        scanner.close();
}
}
```

## **Use Java Scanner in Kotlin** 

Due to Kotlin's interoperability with Java libraries, you can access Java Scanner from Kotlin code out of the box. 

To use Java Scanner in Kotlin, you need to import the `Scanner` class and initialize it by passing a `System.in` object that represents the standard input stream and dictates how to read the data. You can use the available reading methods for reading values different from strings, such as `.nextLine()` , `.next()` , and `.nextInt()` : 

910 

```
// Imports Java Scanner
import java.util.Scanner
funmain(){
// Initializes the Scanner
val scanner =Scanner(System.`in`)
// Reads a whole string line. For example: "Hello, Kotlin"
val line = scanner.nextLine()
print(line)
// Hello, Kotlin
// Reads a string. For example: "Hello"
val string = scanner.next()
print(string)
// Hello
// Reads a number. For example: 123
val num = scanner.nextInt()
print(num)
// 123
}
```

Other useful methods for reading input with Java Scanner are `.hasNext()` , `.useDelimiter()` , and `.close()` : 

- The `.hasNext()` method checks if there's more data available in the input. It returns the boolean value `true` if there are remaining elements to iterate and `false` if no more elements are left in the input. 

- The `.useDelimiter()` method sets the delimiter for reading input elements. The delimiter is whitespaces by default, but you can specify other characters. For example, `.useDelimiter(",")` reads the input elements separated by commas. 

- The `.close()` method closes the input stream associated with the Scanner, preventing further use of the Scanner for reading input. 

Always use the `.close()` method when you're finished using Java Scanner. Closing the Java Scanner releases the resources it consumes and ensures proper program behavior. 

## **Read from the standard input with readln()** 

In Kotlin, apart from the Java Scanner, you have the `readln()` function. It is the most straightforward way to read input. This function reads a line of text from the standard input and returns it as a string: 

```
// Reads a string. For example: Charlotte
val name =readln()
// Reads a string and converts it into an integer. For example: 43
val age =readln().toInt()
println("Hello, $name! You are $age years old.")
// Hello, Charlotte! You are 43 years old.
```

For more information, see Read standard input. 

911 

## **Browser and DOM API** 

The Kotlin/JS standard library lets you access browser-specific functionality using the `kotlinx.browser` package, which includes typical top-level objects such as `document` and `window` . The standard library provides typesafe wrappers for the functionality exposed by these objects wherever possible. As a fallback, the `dynamic` type is used to provide interaction with functions that do not map well into the Kotlin type system. 

## **Interaction with the DOM** 

For interaction with the Document Object Model (DOM), you can use the variable `document` . For example, you can set the background color of our website through this object: 

```
document.bgColor ="FFAA12"
```

The `document` object also provides you a way to retrieve a specific element by ID, name, class name, tag name and so on. All returned elements are of type `Element?` . To access their properties, you need to cast them to their appropriate type. For example, assume that you have an HTML page with an email `<input>` field: 

```
<body>
<input type="text"name="email"id="email"/>
<script type="text/javascript"src="tutorial.js">//script>
//body>
```

Note that your script is included at the bottom of the `body` tag. This ensures that the DOM is fully available before the script is loaded. 

With this setup, you can access elements of the DOM. To access the properties of the `input` field, invoke `getElementById` and cast it to `HTMLInputElement` . You can then safely access its properties, such as `value` : 

```
val email = document.getElementById("email")as HTMLInputElement
email.value ="hadi@jetbrains.com"
```

Much like you reference this `input` element, you can access other elements on the page, casting them to the appropriate types. 

To see how to create and structure elements in the DOM in a concise way, check out the Typesafe HTML DSL. 

## **Use JavaScript code from Kotlin** 

Kotlin was first designed for easy interoperation with the Java platform: it sees Java classes as Kotlin classes, and Java sees Kotlin classes as Java classes. 

However, JavaScript is a dynamically typed language, which means it does not check types at compile time. You can freely talk to JavaScript from Kotlin via dynamic types. If you want to use the full power of the Kotlin type system, you can create external declarations for JavaScript libraries which will be understood by the Kotlin compiler and the surrounding tooling. 

## **Inline JavaScript** 

You can inline JavaScript code into your Kotlin code using the `js()` function: 

912 

```
funjsTypeOf(o: Any): String {
returnjs("typeof o")
}
```

JavaScript code inlining has full support for ES2015 features, including: 

- `const` and `let` variable declarations 

- 

   - ES classes 

- 

   - Generators 

- 

   - Lambdas (arrow functions) 

- Spread and rest operators 

- Template strings 

Because the parameter of `js` is parsed at compile time and translated to JavaScript code "as-is", it must be a string constant. So, the following code is incorrect: 

```
funjsTypeOf(o: Any): String {
returnjs(getTypeof()+" o")// Error: Argument must be a string constant
// The compiler cannot evaluate string concatenations
}
fungetTypeof()="typeof"
```

Instead, for example to inline the rest operator, use a string constant: 

```
funrunSumExample(){
val sum =js("(//.nums) /> nums.reduce((a, b) /> a + b, 0)")
println(sum(1,2,3,4))
}
```

Invoking `js()` returns a result of `dynamic` type, which doesn't provide type safety at compile time. 

## **`external` modifier** 

To tell Kotlin that a certain declaration is written in pure JavaScript, you should mark it with the `external` modifier. When the compiler sees such a declaration, it assumes that the implementation for the corresponding class, function or property is provided externally (by the developer or via an npm dependency), and therefore does not try to generate any JavaScript code from the declaration. This is also why `external` declarations can't have a body. For example: 

913 

```
externalfunalert(message: Any?): Unit
externalclass Node {
val firstChild: Node
funappend(child: Node): Node
funremoveChild(child: Node): Node
// etc
}
externalval window: Window
```

Note that the `external` modifier is inherited by nested declarations. This is why in the example `Node` class, there is no `external` modifier before member functions and properties. 

The `external` modifier is only allowed on package-level declarations. You can't declare an `external` member of a non- `external` class. 

## **Declare (static) members of a class** 

In JavaScript you can define members either on a prototype or a class itself: 

```
functionMyClass(){//.}
MyClass.sharedMember=function(){/* implementation //};
MyClass.prototype.ownMember=function(){/* implementation //};
```

There is no such syntax in Kotlin. However, in Kotlin we have `companion` objects. Kotlin treats companion objects of `external` classes in a special way: instead of expecting an object, it assumes members of companion objects to be members of the class itself. `MyClass` from the example above can be described as follows: 

```
externalclass MyClass {
companionobject{
funsharedMember()
}
funownMember()
}
```

## **Declare parameters with default values** 

If you are writing an external declaration for a JavaScript function which has a parameter with a default value, use `definedExternally` . This delegates the generation of the default values to the JavaScript function itself: 

```
externalfunmyFunWithOptionalArgs(
    x: Int,
    y: String = definedExternally,
    z: String = definedExternally
)
```

With this external declaration, you can call `myFunWithOptionalArgs` with one required argument and two optional arguments, where the default values are calculated by the JavaScript implementation of `myFunWithOptionalArgs` . 

914 

## **Extend JavaScript classes** 

You can easily extend JavaScript classes as if they were Kotlin classes. Just define an `external open` class and extend it by a non- `external` class. For example: 

```
openexternalclass Foo {
openfunrun()
funstop()
}
class Bar :Foo(){
overridefunrun(){
        window.alert("Running!")
}
funrestart(){
        window.alert("Restarting")
}
}
```

There are some limitations: 

- When a function of an external base class is overloaded by signature, you can't override it in a derived class. 

- You can't override a function including parameters with default values. 

- Non-external classes can't be extended by external classes. 

## **external interfaces** 

JavaScript does not have the concept of interfaces. When a function expects its parameter to support two methods `foo` and `bar` , you would just pass in an object that actually has these methods. 

You can use interfaces to express this concept in statically typed Kotlin: 

```
externalinterface HasFooAndBar {
funfoo()
funbar()
}
externalfunmyFunction(p: HasFooAndBar)
```

A typical use case for external interfaces is to describe settings objects. For example: 

915 

```
externalinterface JQueryAjaxSettings {
var async: Boolean
var cache: Boolean
var complete:(JQueryXHR, String)/> Unit
// etc
}
funJQueryAjaxSettings(): JQueryAjaxSettings =js("{}")
externalclass JQuery {
companionobject{
funget(settings: JQueryAjaxSettings): JQueryXHR
}
}
funsendQuery(){
    JQuery.get(JQueryAjaxSettings().apply{
        complete ={(xhr,data)/>
            window.alert("Request complete")
}
})
}
```

External interfaces have some restrictions: 

- They can't be used on the right-hand side of `is` checks. 

- They can't be passed as reified type arguments. 

- They can't be used in class literal expressions (such as `I::class` ). 

- `as` casts to external interfaces always succeed. Casting to external interfaces produces the "Unchecked cast 

- to external interface" compile time warning. The warning can be suppressed with the `@Suppress("UNCHECKED_CAST_TO_EXTERNAL_INTERFACE")` annotation. 

IntelliJ IDEA can also automatically generate the `@Suppress` annotation. Open the intentions menu via the light bulb icon or Alt-Enter, and click the small arrow next to the "Unchecked cast to external interface" inspection. Here, you can select the suppression scope, and your IDE will add the annotation to your file accordingly. 

## **Casts** 

In addition to the "unsafe" cast operator `as` , which throws a `ClassCastException` in case a cast is not possible, Kotlin/JS also provides `unsafeCast<T>()` . When using `unsafeCast` , no type checking is done at all during runtime. For example, consider the following two methods: 

```
funusingUnsafeCast(s: Any)= s.unsafeCast<String>()
funusingAsOperator(s: Any)= s as String
```

They will be compiled accordingly: 

916 

```
functionusingUnsafeCast(s){
return s;
}
functionusingAsOperator(s){
var tmp$;
returntypeof(tmp$ = s)//='string'? tmp$ :throwCCE();
}
```

## **Equality** 

Kotlin/JS has particular semantics for equality checks compared to other platforms. 

In Kotlin/JS, the Kotlin referential equality operator ( `===` ) always translates to the JavaScript strict equality operator ( `===` ). 

The JavaScript `===` operator checks not only that two values are equal but also that the types of these two values are equal: 

```
funmain(){
val name ="kotlin"
val value1 = name.substring(0,1)
val value2 = name.substring(0,1)
println(value1 //= value2)
// Prints 'true' on Kotlin/JS
// Prints 'false' on other platforms
}
```

Also, in Kotlin/JS, the `Byte` , `Short` , `Int` , `Float` , and `Double` numeric types are all represented with the `Number` JavaScript type in runtime. Therefore, the values of these five types are indistinguishable: 

```
funmain(){
println(1.0as Any //=1as Any)
// Prints 'true' on Kotlin/JS
// Prints 'false' on other platforms
}
```

For more information about equality in Kotlin, see the Equality documentation. 

## **Dynamic type** 

The dynamic type is not supported in code targeting the JVM. 

Being a statically typed language, Kotlin still has to interoperate with untyped or loosely typed environments, such as the JavaScript ecosystem. To facilitate these use cases, the `dynamic` type is available in the language: 

```
val dyn:dynamic=.
```

The `dynamic` type basically turns off Kotlin's type checker: 

- A value of the `dynamic` type can be assigned to any variable or passed anywhere as a parameter. 

917 

- Any value can be assigned to a variable of the `dynamic` type or passed to a function that takes `dynamic` as a parameter. 

- 

- `null` -checks are disabled for the `dynamic` type values. 

The most peculiar feature of `dynamic` is that we are allowed to call **any** property or function with any parameters on a `dynamic` variable: 

```
dyn.whatever(1,"foo", dyn)// 'whatever' is not defined anywhere
dyn.whatever(*arrayOf(1,2,3))
```

On the JavaScript platform this code will be compiled "as is": `dyn.whatever(1)` in Kotlin becomes `dyn.whatever(1)` in the generated JavaScript code. 

When calling functions written in Kotlin on values of `dynamic` type, keep in mind the name mangling performed by the Kotlin to JavaScript compiler. You may need to use the @JsName annotation to assign well-defined names to the functions that you need to call. 

A dynamic call always returns `dynamic` as a result, so you can chain such calls freely: 

```
dyn.foo().bar.baz()
```

When you pass a lambda to a dynamic call, all of its parameters by default have the type `dynamic` : 

```
dyn.foo{
    x /> x.bar()// x is dynamic
}
```

Expressions using values of `dynamic` type are translated to JavaScript "as is", and do not use the Kotlin operator conventions. The following operators are supported: 

- binary: `+` , `-` , `*` , `/` , `%` , `>` , `< >=` , `<=` , `==` , `!=` , `===` , `!==` , `&&` , `||` 

- unary 

   - prefix: `-` , `+` , `!` 

   - prefix and postfix: `++` , `--` 

- assignments: `+=` , `-=` , `*=` , `/=` , `%=` 

- 

- indexed access: 

- read: `d[a]` , more than one argument is an error 

- write: `d[a1] = a2` , more than one argument in `[]` is an error 

`in` , `!in` and `..` operations with values of type `dynamic` are forbidden. 

For a more technical description, see the spec document. 

## **Use dependencies from npm** 

In Kotlin/JS projects, all dependencies can be managed through the Gradle plugin. This includes Kotlin/Multiplatform libraries such as `kotlinx.coroutines` , `kotlinx.serialization` , or `ktor-client` . 

For depending on JavaScript packages from npm, the Gradle DSL exposes an `npm` function that lets you specify packages you want to import from npm. Let's consider the import of an NPM package called `is-sorted` . 

The corresponding part in the Gradle build file looks as follows: 

918 

```
dependencies {
// //.
implementation(npm("is-sorted","1.0.5"))
}
```

Because JavaScript modules are usually dynamically typed and Kotlin is a statically typed language, you need to provide a kind of adapter. In Kotlin, such adapters are called external declarations. For the `is-sorted` package which offers only one function, this declaration is small to write. Inside the source folder, create a new file called `is-sorted.kt` , and fill it with these contents: 

```
@JsModule("is-sorted")
@JsNonModule
externalfun<T>sorted(a: Array<T>): Boolean
```

Please note that if you're using CommonJS as a target, the `@JsModule` and `@JsNonModule` annotations need to be adjusted accordingly. 

This JavaScript function can now be used just like a regular Kotlin function. Because we provided type information in the header file (as opposed to simply defining parameter and return type to be `dynamic` ), proper compiler support and type-checking is also available. 

```
console.log("Hello, Kotlin/JS!")
console.log(sorted(arrayOf(1,2,3)))
console.log(sorted(arrayOf(3,1,2)))
```

Running these three lines either in the browser or Node.js, the output shows that the call to `sorted` was properly mapped to the function exported by the `is-sorted` package: 

```
Hello, Kotlin/JS!
true
false
```

Because the JavaScript ecosystem has multiple ways of exposing functions in a package (for example through named or default exports), other npm packages might need a slightly altered structure for their external declarations. 

To learn more about how to write declarations, please refer to Calling JavaScript from Kotlin. 

## **Use Kotlin code from JavaScript** 

Depending on the selected JavaScript Module system, the Kotlin/JS compiler generates different output. But in general, the Kotlin compiler generates normal JavaScript classes, functions and properties, which you can freely use from JavaScript code. There are some subtle things you should remember, though. 

## **Isolating declarations in a separate JavaScript object in plain mode** 

If you have explicitly set your module kind to be `plain` , Kotlin creates an object that contains all Kotlin declarations from the current module. This is done to prevent spoiling the global object. This means that for a module `myModule` , all declarations are available to JavaScript via the `myModule` object. For example: 

```
funfoo()="Hello"
```

This function can be called from JavaScript like this: 

919 

```
alert(myModule.foo());
```

Calling the function directly like this is not applicable when you compile your Kotlin module to JavaScript modules like UMD (the default setting for both `browser` and `nodejs` targets), ESM, CommonJS, or AMD. In these cases, your declarations are exposed according to the chosen JavaScript module system. For example, when using UMD, ESM, or CommonJS, your call site would look like this: 

```
alert(require('myModule').foo());
```

For more information about JavaScript module systems, see JavaScript Modules. 

## **Package structure** 

For most of the module systems (CommonJS, Plain, and UMD), Kotlin exposes its package structure to JavaScript. Unless you define your declarations in the root package, you have to use fully qualified names in JavaScript. For example: 

```
package my.qualified.packagename
funfoo()="Hello"
```

For example, when using UMD or CommonJS, your call site could look like this: 

```
alert(require('myModule').my.qualified.packagename.foo())
```

When using `plain` as a module system setting, the call site would be: 

```
alert(myModule.my.qualified.packagename.foo());
```

When targeting ECMAScript Modules (ESM), package information is not preserved to improve the application bundle size and match the typical layout of ESM packages. In this case, the consumption of the Kotlin declarations with ES modules looks like this: 

```
import{ foo }from'myModule';
alert(foo());
```

## **`@JsName` annotation** 

In some cases (for example, to support overloads), the Kotlin compiler mangles the names of generated functions and attributes in JavaScript code. To control the generated names, you can use the `@JsName` annotation: 

```
// Module 'kjs'
classPerson(val name: String){
funhello(){
println("Hello $name!")
}
@JsName("helloWithGreeting")
funhello(greeting: String){
println("$greeting$name!")
}
}
```

920 

Now you can use this class from JavaScript in the following way: 

```
// If necessary, import 'kjs' according to chosen module system
var person =newkjs.Person("Dmitry");// refers to module 'kjs'
person.hello();// prints "Hello Dmitry!"
person.helloWithGreeting("Servus");// prints "Servus Dmitry!"
```

If we didn't specify the `@JsName` annotation, the name of the corresponding function would contain a suffix calculated from the function signature, for example `hello_61zpoe$` . 

Note that there are some cases in which the Kotlin compiler does not apply mangling: 

- `external` declarations are not mangled. 

- Any overridden functions in non- `external` classes inheriting from `external` classes are not mangled. 

The parameter of `@JsName` is required to be a constant string literal which is a valid identifier. The compiler will report an error on any attempt to pass non-identifier string to `@JsName` . The following example produces a compile-time error: 

```
@JsName("new C()")// error here
externalfunnewC()
```

## Experimental 

## **`@JsExport` annotation** 

By applying the `@JsExport` annotation to a top-level declaration (like a class, interface, or function), you can make Kotlin declarations available from JavaScript or TypeScript. The annotation exports all nested declarations with the name given in Kotlin. 

For example, here's how you can export a Kotlin interface with a nested class and a named companion object: 

```
@JsExport
interface Identity {
classMetadata(val tag: String)
companionobject Registry {
val defaultTag ="GUEST"
}
}
```

Currently, the `@JsExport` annotation is the only way to make your functions visible from Kotlin. 

The `@JsExport` annotation is also available: 

- In common code in multiplatform projects. It only has an effect when compiling for the JavaScript target and allows you to also export Kotlin declarations that are not platform-specific. 

- Together with the `@JsName` annotation to specify the names for the generated and exported functions. This helps to resolve ambiguities in exports (like overloads for functions with the same name). 

- 

- At the file level using `@file:JsExport` . 

## **Support for value class export** 

You can export Kotlin's inline value classes as regular TypeScript classes. 

To export a value class, mark it with the `@JsExport` annotation on the Kotlin side: 

921 

```
// Kotlin
@JsExport
@JvmInline
value classEmail(val address: String){
init{require(address.contains("@")){"Invalid email"}}
}
@JsExport
class AuthService {
suspendfunlogin(email: Email): String =.
}
```

From the TypeScript side, it looks like a regular class: 

```
// TypeScript
import { AuthService, Email } from "//."
const auth = new AuthService();
console.log(await auth.login(new Email("jane@example.com")));
// "Welcome, jane@example.com!"
console.log(await auth.login(new Email("not-an-email")));
// "Invalid email"
```

## **`@JsNoRuntime` annotation** 

You can export Kotlin interfaces to JavaScript/TypeScript with the `@JsNoRuntime` annotation. It allows for direct mapping to regular TypeScript interfaces. 

To export a Kotlin interface, for example from a Kotlin Multiplatform project: 

1. Annotate the Kotlin interface with `@JsNoRuntime` in common code: 

```
// commonMain
import kotlin.js.JsNoRuntime
@JsNoRuntime
expectinterface DataProcessor {
funprocess(data: String): Int
}
```

2. Provide the actual implementation with `@JsNoRuntime` in your JS-specific source code: 

```
// jsMain
import kotlin.js.JsNoRuntime
@JsNoRuntime
actualinterface DataProcessor {
actualfunprocess(data: String): Int
}
```

3. On the TypeScript side, the interface will be mapped to a regular TypeScript interface: 

```
// Generated .d.ts
export interface DataProcessor {
    process(data: string): number;
}
```

For Kotlin Multiplatform projects, the general rules are: 

922 

- Both `expect` and `actual` interface declarations must be annotated with `@JsNoRuntime` . The only exception is `external` implementations in platform-specific code on the `actual` side that require no annotation. 

- Using `external` interface declarations in common code on the `expect` side is prohibited. Instead, use regular interfaces annotated with `@JsNoRuntime` . 

Exporting Kotlin interfaces with `@JsNoRuntime` has some restrictions. The annotation isn't allowed with: 

- `external` interfaces as they already behave as if they have `@JsNoRuntime` by default. Adding it results in a 

- compiler warning. 

- `is` and `as` type checks. 

- Class references that use the `::class` syntax. 

- Interfaces that are passed as reified type argument. 

## Experimental 

## **`@JsStatic`** 

The `@JsStatic` annotation instructs the compiler to generate additional static methods for the target declaration. This helps you use static members from your Kotlin code directly in JavaScript. 

You can apply the `@JsStatic` annotation to functions defined in named objects, as well as in companion objects declared inside classes and interfaces. If you use this annotation, the compiler will generate both a static method of the object and an instance method in the object itself. For example: 

```
// Kotlin
class C {
companionobject{
@JsStatic
funcallStatic(){}
funcallNonStatic(){}
}
}
```

Now, the `callStatic()` function is static in JavaScript while the `callNonStatic()` function is not: 

```
// JavaScript
C.callStatic();// Works, accessing the static function
C.callNonStatic();// Error, not a static function in the generated JavaScript
C.Companion.callStatic();// Instance method remains
C.Companion.callNonStatic();// The only way it works
```

It's also possible to apply the `@JsStatic` annotation to a property of an object or a companion object, making its getter and setter methods static members in that object or the class containing the companion object. 

This feature is Experimental. Share your feedback in our issue tracker, YouTrack. 

## Experimental 

## **Use** **`BigInt` type to represent Kotlin's** **`Long` type** 

Kotlin/JS uses JavaScript's built-in `BigInt` type to represent Kotlin `Long` values when compiling to modern JavaScript (ES2020). 

To enable support for the `BigInt` type, you need to add the following compiler option to your `build.gradle(.kts)` file: 

923 

```
// build.gradle.kts
kotlin {
    js {
.
        compilerOptions {
            freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xes-long-as-bigint")
}
}
}
```

This feature is Experimental. Share your feedback in our issue tracker, YouTrack. 

## **Use** **`Long` in exported declarations** 

Since Kotlin's `Long` type can compile to JavaScript's `BigInt` type, Kotlin/JS supports exporting `Long` values to JavaScript. 

To enable this feature: 

1. Allow exporting `Long` in Kotlin/JS. Add the following compiler option to the `freeCompilerArgs` attribute in your `build.gradle(.kts)` file: 

```
// build.gradle.kts
kotlin {
   js {
.
       compilerOptions {
           freeCompilerArgs.add("-XXLanguage:+JsAllowLongInExportedDeclarations")
}
}
}
```

2. Enable the `BigInt` type. See how to enable it in Use `BigInt` type to represent Kotlin's `Long` type. 

## Experimental 

## **Use** **`BigInt64Array` type to represent Kotlin's** **`LongArray` type** 

Kotlin/JS can use JavaScript's built-in `BigInt64Array` type to represent Kotlin's `LongArray` values when compiling to JavaScript. 

To enable support for the `BigInt64Array` type, add the following compiler option to your `build.gradle(.kts)` file: 

```
// build.gradle.kts
kotlin {
    js {
.
        compilerOptions {
            freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xes-long-as-bigint")
}
}
}
```

This feature is Experimental. Share your feedback in our issue tracker, YouTrack. 

924 

## **Kotlin types in JavaScript** 

See how Kotlin types are mapped to JavaScript ones: 

**==> picture [525 x 662] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Kotlin JavaScript Comments<br>Byte ,  Short ,  Int ,  Float , Number<br>Double<br>Char Number The number represents the character's code.<br>Long BigInt Needs the  -Xes-long-as-bigint  compiler option<br>configured.<br>Boolean Boolean<br>String String<br>Array Array<br>ByteArray Int8Array<br>ShortArray Int16Array<br>IntArray Int32Array<br>CharArray UInt16Array Carries the property  $type$ == "CharArray" .<br>FloatArray Float32Array<br>DoubleArray Float64Array<br>LongArray BigInt64Array<br>BooleanArray Int8Array Carries the property  $type$ == "BooleanArray" .<br>List ,  MutableList KtList , Exposes an  Array  via<br>KtMutableList KtList.asJsReadonlyArrayView  or<br>KtMutableList.asJsArrayView .<br>Map ,  MutableMap KtMap , Exposes an ES2015  Map  via<br>KtMutableMap KtMap.asJsReadonlyMapView  or<br>KtMutableMap.asJsMapView .<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


925 

JavaScript 

Comments 

Kotlin 

**==> picture [507 x 314] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Set ,  MutableSet KtSet , Exposes an ES2015  Set  via<br>KtMutableSet KtSet.asJsReadonlySetView  or<br>KtMutableSet.asJsSetView .<br>Unit Undefined Exportable when used as return type, but not when<br>used as parameter type.<br>Any Object<br>Throwable Error<br>enum class Type Type Enum entries are exposed as static class properties<br>( Type.ENTRY ).<br>Nullable  Type? Type | null |<br>undefined<br>All other Kotlin types, except for Not supported Includes Kotlin's unsigned integer types.<br>those marked with  @JsExport<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Additionally, it is important to know that: 

- Kotlin preserves overflow semantics for `kotlin.Int` , `kotlin.Byte` , `kotlin.Short` , `kotlin.Char` and `kotlin.Long` . 

- Kotlin cannot distinguish between numeric types at runtime (except for `kotlin.Long` ), so the following code works: 

```
funf(){
val x: Int =23
val y: Any = x
println(y as Float)
}
```

- Kotlin preserves lazy object initialization in JavaScript. 

## **JavaScript modules** 

You can compile your Kotlin projects to JavaScript modules for various popular module systems. We currently support the following configurations for JavaScript modules: 

- ES Modules, the standard way to declare a module in JavaScript (with the `import/export` JavaScript syntax). It's used by default if the `target` is set to `es2015` . 

- Unified Module Definitions (UMD), which is compatible with both AMD and CommonJS. UMD modules are also able to be executed without being imported or when no module system is present. This is the default option for the `browser` and `nodejs` targets. 

• 

926 

Asynchronous Module Definitions (AMD), which is in particular used by the RequireJS library. 

- CommonJS, widely used by Node.js/npm ( `require` function and `module.exports` object). 

- 

- Plain. Don't compile for any module system. You can access a module by its name in the global scope. 

## **Browser targets** 

If you intend to run your code in a web browser environment and want to use a module system other than UMD, you can specify the desired module type in the `webpackTask` configuration block. For example, to switch to CommonJS, use: 

```
kotlin {
    js {
        browser {
            webpackTask {
                output.libraryTarget ="commonjs2"
}
}
        binaries.executable()
}
}
```

Webpack provides two different flavors of CommonJS, `commonjs` and `commonjs2` , which affect the way your declarations are made available. In most cases, you probably want `commonjs2` , which adds the `module.exports` syntax to the generated library. Alternatively, you can also opt for the `commonjs` option, which adheres strictly to the CommonJS specification. To learn more about the difference between `commonjs` and `commonjs2` , see the Webpack repository. 

## **JavaScript libraries and Node.js files** 

If you are creating a library for use in JavaScript or Node.js environments, and want to use a different module system, the instructions are slightly different. 

## **Choose the target module system** 

To select the target module system, set the `moduleKind` compiler option in the Gradle build script: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
tasks.withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.targets.js.ir.KotlinJsIrLink>{
    compilerOptions.moduleKind.set(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.JsModuleKind.MODULE_COMMONJS)
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
compileKotlinJs.compilerOptions.moduleKind =
org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.JsModuleKind.MODULE_COMMONJS
```

The available values are: `umd` (default), `es` , `commonjs` , `amd` , `plain` . 

927 

This is different from adjusting `webpackTask.output.libraryTarget` . The library target changes the output generated by webpack (after your code has already been compiled). `compilerOptions.moduleKind` changes the output generated by the Kotlin compiler. 

In the Kotlin Gradle DSL, there is also a shortcut for setting the CommonJS and ESM module kinds: 

```
kotlin {
    js {
useCommonJs()
// OR
useEsModules()
// //.
}
}
```

## **@JsModule annotation** 

To tell Kotlin that an `external` class, package, function or property is a JavaScript module, you can use `@JsModule` annotation. Consider you have the following CommonJS module called "hello": 

```
module.exports.sayHello=function(name){alert("Hello, "+ name);}
```

You should declare it like this in Kotlin: 

```
@JsModule("hello")
externalfunsayHello(name: String)
```

## **Apply @JsModule to packages** 

Some JavaScript libraries export packages (namespaces) instead of functions and classes. In terms of JavaScript, it's an object that has members that are classes, functions and properties. Importing these packages as Kotlin objects often looks unnatural. The compiler can map imported JavaScript packages to Kotlin packages, using the following notation: 

```
@file:JsModule("extModule")
package ext.jspackage.name
externalfunfoo()
externalclass C
```

Where the corresponding JavaScript module is declared like this: 

```
module.exports ={
  foo:{/* some code here //},
C:{/* some code here //}
}
```

Files marked with `@file:JsModule` annotation can't declare non-external members. The example below produces a compile-time error: 

928 

```
@file:JsModule("extModule")
```

```
package ext.jspackage.name
externalfunfoo()
funbar()="!"+foo()+"!"// error here
```

## **Import deeper package hierarchies** 

In the previous example the JavaScript module exports a single package. However, some JavaScript libraries export multiple packages from within a module. This case is also supported by Kotlin, though you have to declare a new `.kt` file for each package you import. 

For example, let's make the example a bit more complicated: 

```
module.exports ={
  mylib:{
    pkg1:{
foo:function(){/* some code here //},
bar:function(){/* some code here //}
},
    pkg2:{
baz:function(){/* some code here //}
}
}
}
```

To import this module in Kotlin, you have to write two Kotlin source files: 

```
@file:JsModule("extModule")
@file:JsQualifier("mylib.pkg1")
package extlib.pkg1
externalfunfoo()
externalfunbar()
```

and 

```
@file:JsModule("extModule")
@file:JsQualifier("mylib.pkg2")
package extlib.pkg2
externalfunbaz()
```

## **@JsNonModule annotation** 

When a declaration is marked as `@JsModule` , you can't use it from Kotlin code when you don't compile it to a JavaScript module. Usually, developers distribute their libraries both as JavaScript modules and downloadable `.js` files that you can copy to your project's static resources and include via a `<script>` tag. To tell Kotlin that it's okay to use a `@JsModule` declaration from a non-module environment, add the `@JsNonModule` annotation. For example, consider the following JavaScript code: 

929 

```
functiontopLevelSayHello(name){alert("Hello, "+ name);}
```

```
if(module /& module.exports){
  module.exports = topLevelSayHello;
}
```

You could describe it from Kotlin as follows: 

```
@JsModule("hello")
@JsNonModule
@JsName("topLevelSayHello")
externalfunsayHello(name: String)
```

## **Module system used by the Kotlin Standard Library** 

Kotlin is distributed with the Kotlin/JS standard library as a single file, which is itself compiled as an UMD module, so you can use it with any module system described above. For most use cases of Kotlin/JS, it is recommended to use a Gradle dependency on `kotlin-stdlib-js` , which is also available on NPM as the `kotlin` package. 

## **Kotlin/JS reflection** 

Kotlin/JS provides a limited support for the Kotlin reflection API. The only supported parts of the API are: 

- Class references ( `::class` ) 

- 

   - `KType` and `typeof()` 

- 

- `KClass` and `createInstance()` 

## **Class references** 

The `::class` syntax returns a reference to the class of an instance, or the class corresponding to the given type. In Kotlin/JS, the value of a `::class` expression is a stripped-down KClass implementation that supports only: 

- simpleName and isInstance() members. 

- 

- cast() and safeCast() extension functions. 

In addition to that, you can use KClass.js to access the JsClass instance corresponding to the class. The `JsClass` instance itself is a reference to the constructor function. This can be used to interoperate with JS functions that expect a reference to a constructor. 

## **KType and typeOf()** 

The `typeof()` function constructs an instance of `KType` for a given type. The `KType` API is fully supported in Kotlin/JS except for Java-specific parts. 

## **KClass and createInstance()** 

The `createInstance()` function from the KClass interface creates a new instance of the specified class, which is useful for getting the runtime reference to a Kotlin class. 

930 

## **Example** 

Here is an example of the reflection usage in Kotlin/JS. 

```
openclass Shape
class Rectangle :Shape()
inlinefun<reified T>accessReifiedTypeArg()=
println(typeOf<T>().toString())
funmain(){
val s =Shape()
val r =Rectangle()
println(r/:class.simpleName)// Prints "Rectangle"
println(Shape/:class.simpleName)// Prints "Shape"
println(Shape/:class.js.name)// Prints "Shape"
println(Shape/:class.isInstance(r))// Prints "true"
println(Rectangle/:class.isInstance(s))// Prints "false"
val rShape = Shape/:class.cast(r)// Casts a Rectangle "r" to Shape
    accessReifiedTypeArg<Rectangle>()// Accesses the type via typeOf(). Prints "Rectangle"
}
```

## **Typesafe HTML DSL** 

The kotlinx.html library provides the ability to generate DOM elements using statically typed HTML builders (and besides JavaScript, it is even available on the JVM target!) To use the library, include the corresponding repository and dependency to our `build.gradle.kts` file: 

```
repositories {
// //.
mavenCentral()
}
dependencies {
implementation(kotlin("stdlib-js"))
implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-html-js:0.8.0")
// //.
}
```

Once the dependency is included, you can access the different interfaces provided to generate the DOM. To render a headline, some text, and a link, the following snippet would be sufficient, for example: 

931 

```
import kotlinx.browser.*
import kotlinx.html.*
import kotlinx.html.dom.*
```

```
funmain(){
    document.body/!.append.div{
        h1 {
+"Welcome to Kotlin/JS!"
}
        p {
+"Fancy joining this year's "
a("https://kotlinconf.com/"){
+"KotlinConf"
}
+"?"
}
}
}
```

When running this example in the browser, the DOM will be assembled in a straightforward way. This is easily confirmed by checking the Elements of the website using the developer tools of our browser: 

**==> picture [524 x 254] intentionally omitted <==**

Rendering a website from kotlinx.html 

To learn more about the `kotlinx.html` library, check out the GitHub Wiki, where you can find more information about how to create elements without adding them to the DOM, binding to events like `onClick` , and examples on how to apply CSS classes to your HTML elements, to name just a few. 

## **Interoperability with Swift/Objective-C** 

The Objective-C libraries import is in Beta. All Kotlin declarations generated by the cinterop tool from Objective-C libraries should have the `@ExperimentalForeignApi` annotation. 

Native platform libraries shipped with Kotlin/Native (like Foundation, UIKit, and POSIX) require opt-in only for some APIs. 

932 

Kotlin/Native provides indirect interoperability with Swift through Objective-C. This document covers how you can use Kotlin declarations in Swift/Objective-C code and Objective-C declarations in Kotlin code. 

Some other resources you might find useful: 

- The Kotlin-Swift interopedia, a collection of examples on how to use Kotlin declarations in Swift code. 

- The Integration with Swift/Objective-C ARC section, covering the details of integration between Kotlin's tracing GC and Objective-C's ARC. 

## **Importing Swift/Objective-C libraries to Kotlin** 

Objective-C frameworks and libraries can be used in Kotlin code if properly imported to the build (system frameworks are imported by default). For more details, see: 

- Create and configure a library definition file 

- 

- Configure compilation for native libraries 

A Swift library can be used in Kotlin code if its API is exported to Objective-C with `@objc` . Pure Swift modules are not yet supported. 

## **Using Kotlin in Swift/Objective-C** 

Kotlin modules can be used in Swift/Objective-C code if compiled into a framework: 

- See Build final native binaries to see how to declare binaries. 

- 

- Check out the Kotlin Multiplatform sample project for an example. 

## Experimental 

## **Hide Kotlin declarations from Objective-C and Swift** 

To make your Kotlin code more Swift/Objective-C-friendly, use the `@HiddenFromObjC` annotation to hide a Kotlin declaration from Objective-C and Swift. It disables the function or property export to Objective-C. 

Alternatively, you can mark Kotlin declarations with the `internal` modifier to restrict their visibility in the compilation module. Use `@HiddenFromObjC` if you want to hide the Kotlin declaration from Objective-C and Swift while keeping it visible to other Kotlin modules. 

- See an example in the Kotlin Swift interopedia. 

## Experimental 

## **Use refining in Swift** 

`@ShouldRefineInSwift` helps to replace a Kotlin declaration with a wrapper written in Swift. The annotation marks a function or property as `swift_private` in the generated Objective-C API. Such declarations get the `__` prefix, which makes them invisible from Swift. 

You can still use these declarations in your Swift code to create a Swift-friendly API, but they won't be suggested in the Xcode autocomplete. 

- For more information on refining Objective-C declarations in Swift, see the official Apple documentation. 

- For an example on how to use the `@ShouldRefineInSwift` annotation, see the Kotlin-Swift interopedia. 

933 

Experimental 

## **Change declaration names** 

To avoid renaming Kotlin declarations, use the `@ObjCName` annotation. It instructs the Kotlin compiler to use the custom Objective-C and Swift name for the annotated class, interface, or another Kotlin entity: 

```
@ObjCName(swiftName ="MySwiftArray")
class MyKotlinArray {
@ObjCName("index")
funindexOf(@ObjCName("of") element: String): Int =TODO()
}
// Usage with the ObjCName annotations
let array =MySwiftArray()
let index = array.index(of:"element")
```

- See another example in the Kotlin Swift interopedia. 

## **Provide documentation with KDoc comments** 

Documentation is essential for understanding any API. Providing documentation for the shared Kotlin API allows you to communicate with its users on matters of usage, dos and don'ts, and so on. 

When generating Objective-C headers, KDoc comments from Kotlin code are translated into corresponding Objective-C comments. For example, the following Kotlin code with KDoc: 

```
/**
 * Prints the sum of the arguments.
 * Properly handles the case when the sum doesn't fit in 32-bit integer.
 //
funprintSum(a: Int, b: Int)=println(a.toLong()+ b)
```

Will produce an Objective-C header with the corresponding comment: 

```
/**
 * Prints the sum of the arguments.
 * Properly handles the case when the sum doesn't fit in 32-bit integer.
 //
+(void)printSumA:(int32_t)a b:(int32_t)b /_attribute/_((swift_name("printSum(a:b:)")));
```

KDoc comments are embedded into klibs and extracted from klibs into the produced Apple frameworks. As a result, comments on classes and methods appear during autocompletion, for example in Xcode. If you go to the definition of functions in the `.h` file, you'll see comments on `@param` , `@return` , and similar tags. 

Known limitations: 

- Dependency documentation is not exported unless it is compiled with the `-Xexport-kdoc` option. Libraries compiled with this compiler option might be incompatible with other compiler versions. 

- KDoc comments are mostly exported as is, but many KDoc block tags, such as `@property` , are not supported. 

If necessary, you can disable the export of KDoc comments from klibs to the produced Apple frameworks in the `binaries {}` block of your Gradle build file: 

934 

```
// build.gradle.kts
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.ExperimentalKotlinGradlePluginApi
```

```
kotlin {
    iosArm64 {
        binaries {
            framework {
                baseName ="sdk"
@OptIn(ExperimentalKotlinGradlePluginApi/:class)
                exportKdoc.set(false)
}
}
}
}
```

## **Mappings** 

The table below shows how Kotlin concepts are mapped to Swift/Objective-C and vice versa. 

## "->" and "<-" indicate that mapping only goes one way. 

**==> picture [501 x 464] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Kotlin Swift Objective-C Notes<br>class class @interface note<br>interface protocol @protocol<br>constructor / create Initializer Initializer note<br>Property Property Property note 1, note 2<br>Method Method Method note 1, note 2<br>enum class class @interface note<br>suspend -> completionHandler: / async completionHandler: note 1, note 2<br>@Throws fun throws error:(NSError**)error note<br>Extension Extension Category member note<br>companion  member <- Class method or property Class method or property<br>null nil nil<br>Singleton shared  or  companion  property shared  or  companion  property note<br>Primitive type Primitive type /  NSNumber note<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


935 

Swift 

Objective-C 

Kotlin 

Notes 

**==> picture [459 x 361] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Unit  return type Void void<br>String String NSString note<br>String NSMutableString NSMutableString note<br>List Array NSArray<br>MutableList NSMutableArray NSMutableArray<br>Set Set NSSet<br>MutableSet NSMutableSet NSMutableSet note<br>Map Dictionary NSDictionary<br>MutableMap NSMutableDictionary NSMutableDictionary note<br>Function type Function type Block pointer type note<br>Inline classes Unsupported Unsupported note<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


## **Classes** 

## **Name translation** 

Objective-C classes are imported into Kotlin with their original names. Protocols are imported as interfaces with a `Protocol` name suffix, for example, `@protocol Foo` -> `interface FooProtocol` . These classes and interfaces are placed into a package specified in build configuration ( `platform.*` packages for preconfigured system frameworks). 

The names of Kotlin classes and interfaces are prefixed when imported to Objective-C. The prefix is derived from the framework name. 

Objective-C does not support packages in a framework. If the Kotlin compiler finds Kotlin classes in the same framework which have the same name but different packages, it renames them. This algorithm is not stable yet and can change between Kotlin releases. To work around this, you can rename the conflicting Kotlin classes in the framework. 

## **Strong linking** 

Whenever you use an Objective-C class in the Kotlin source, it's marked as a strongly linked symbol. The resulting build artifact mentions related symbols as strong external references. 

936 

This means that the app tries to link symbols during the launch dynamically, and if they are unavailable, the app crashes. The crash happens even if symbols were never used. Symbols might be unavailable on a particular device or OS version. 

To work around this issue and avoid "Symbol not found" errors, use a Swift or Objective-C wrapper that checks if the class is actually available. See how this workaround was implemented in the Compose Multiplatform framework. 

## **Initializers** 

A Swift/Objective-C initializer is imported to Kotlin as constructors or as factory methods named `create` . The latter happens with initializers declared in the Objective-C category or as a Swift extension, because Kotlin has no concept of extension constructors. 

Before importing Swift initializers to Kotlin, don't forget to annotate them with `@objc` . 

Kotlin constructors are imported as initializers to Swift/Objective-C. 

## **Setters** 

Writeable Objective-C properties overriding read-only properties of the superclass are represented as the `setFoo()` method for the property `foo` . The same goes for a protocol's read-only properties that are implemented as mutable. 

## **Top-level functions and properties** 

Top-level Kotlin functions and properties are accessible as members of special classes. Each Kotlin file is translated into such a class, for example: 

```
// MyLibraryUtils.kt
package my.library
funfoo(){}
```

You can then call the `foo()` function from Swift like this: 

```
MyLibraryUtilsKt.foo()
```

See a collection of examples on accessing top-level Kotlin declarations in the Kotlin-Swift interopedia: 

- Top-level functions 

- 

   - Top-level read-only properties 

- 

- 

- Top level mutable properties 

## **Method names translation** 

Generally, Swift argument labels and Objective-C selector pieces are mapped to Kotlin parameter names. These two concepts have different semantics, so sometimes Swift/Objective-C methods can be imported with a clashing Kotlin signature. In this case, the clashing methods can be called from Kotlin using named arguments, for example: 

937 

```
[player moveTo:LEFT byMeters:17]
[player moveTo:UP byInches:42]
```

In Kotlin, it's: 

```
player.moveTo(LEFT, byMeters =17)
player.moveTo(UP, byInches =42)
```

Here's how the `kotlin.Any` functions are mapped to Swift/Objective-C: 

Kotlin Swift Objective-C `equals() isEquals(_:) isEquals: hashCode() hash hash toString() description description` 

- See an example with data classes in the Kotlin Swift interopedia. 

You can specify a more idiomatic name in Swift or Objective-C, instead of renaming the Kotlin declaration with the `@ObjCName` annotation. 

## **Errors and exceptions** 

All Kotlin exceptions are unchecked, meaning that errors are caught at runtime. However, Swift has only checked errors that are handled at compile time. So, if Swift or Objective-C code calls a Kotlin method that throws an exception, the Kotlin method should be marked with the `@Throws` annotation, specifying a list of "expected" exception classes. 

When compiling to the Swift/Objective-C framework, non- `suspend` functions that have or inherit the `@Throws` annotation are represented as `NSError*` -producing methods in Objective-C and as `throws` methods in Swift. Representations for `suspend` functions always have an `NSError*` / `Error` parameter in the completion handler. 

When a Kotlin function called from Swift/Objective-C code throws an exception which is an instance of one of the classes specified with `@Throws` or their subclasses, the exception is propagated as an `NSError` . Other Kotlin exceptions reaching Swift/Objective-C are considered unhandled and cause program termination. 

`suspend` functions without `@Throws` propagate only `CancellationException` (as `NSError` ). Non- `suspend` functions without `@Throws` don't propagate Kotlin exceptions at all. 

Note that the opposite reversed translation is not implemented yet: Swift/Objective-C error-throwing methods aren't imported to Kotlin as exception-throwing. 

- See an example in the Kotlin Swift interopedia. 

## **Enums** 

Kotlin enums are imported into Objective-C as `@interface` and into Swift as `class` . These data structures have properties corresponding to each enum value. Consider this Kotlin code: 

938 

```
// Kotlin
enumclass Colors {
    RED, GREEN, BLUE
}
```

You can access the properties of this enum class from Swift as follows: 

```
// Swift
Colors.red
Colors.green
Colors.blue
```

To use variables of a Kotlin enum in a Swift `switch` statement, provide a default statement to prevent a compilation error: 

```
switch color {
case.red:print("It's red")
case.green:print("It's green")
case.blue:print("It's blue")
default:fatalError("No such color")
}
```

- See another example in the Kotlin Swift interopedia. 

Experimental 

## **Suspending functions** 

Kotlin's suspending functions ( `suspend` ) are presented in the generated Objective-C headers as functions with callbacks, or completion handlers in Swift/Objective-C terminology. 

Starting from Swift 5.5, Kotlin's `suspend` functions are also available for calling from Swift as `async` functions without using the completion handlers. Currently, this functionality is highly experimental and has certain limitations. See this YouTrack issue for details. 

- 

## Learn more about the `async` / `await` mechanism in the Swift documentation. 

- See an example and recommendations on third-party libraries that implement the same functionality in the Kotlin-Swift interopedia. 

## **Extensions and category members** 

Members of Objective-C categories and Swift extensions are generally imported to Kotlin as extensions. That's why these declarations can't be overridden in Kotlin, and the extension initializers aren't available as Kotlin constructors. 

- Currently, there are two exceptions. Starting with Kotlin 1.8.20, category members that are declared in the same headers as the NSView class (from the AppKit framework) or UIView classes (from the UIKit framework) are imported as members of these classes. This means that you can override methods that subclass from NSView or UIView. 

Kotlin extensions to "regular" Kotlin classes are imported to Swift and Objective-C as extensions and category members, respectively. Kotlin extensions to other types are treated as top-level declarations with an additional receiver parameter. These types include: 

939 

- Kotlin `String` type 

- Kotlin collection types and subtypes 

- Kotlin `interface` types 

- Kotlin primitive types 

- Kotlin `inline` classes 

- Kotlin `Any` type 

- Kotlin function types and subtypes 

- Objective-C classes and protocols 

- See a collection of examples in the Kotlin Swift interopedia. 

## **Kotlin singletons** 

Kotlin singleton (made with an `object` declaration, including `companion object` ) is imported to Swift/Objective-C as a class with a single instance. 

The instance is available through the `shared` and `companion` properties. 

For the following Kotlin code: 

```
object MyObject {
val x ="Some value"
}
class MyClass {
companionobject{
val x ="Some value"
}
}
```

Access these objects as follows: 

```
MyObject.shared
MyObject.shared.x
MyClass.companion
MyClass.Companion.shared
```

Access objects through `[MySingleton mySingleton]` in Objective-C and `MySingleton()` in Swift has been deprecated. 

See more examples in the Kotlin-Swift interopedia: 

- How to access Kotlin objects using `shared` 

- How to access members of Kotlin companion objects from Swift. 

## **Primitive types** 

Kotlin primitive type boxes are mapped to special Swift/Objective-C classes. For example, the `kotlin.Int` box is represented as the `KotlinInt` class instance in Swift (or the `${prefix}Int` instance in Objective-C, where 

940 

`prefix` is the framework's name prefix). These classes are derived from `NSNumber` , so the instances are proper `NSNumber` s supporting all corresponding operations. 

The `NSNumber` type is not automatically translated to Kotlin primitive types when used as a Swift/Objective-C parameter type or return value. The reason is that the `NSNumber` type doesn't provide enough information about a wrapped primitive value type, for example, `NSNumber` is statically not known to be `Byte` , `Boolean` , or `Double` . So Kotlin primitive values should be cast to and from `NSNumber` manually. 

## **Strings** 

When a Kotlin `String` is passed to Swift, it's first exported as an Objective-C object, and then the Swift compiler copies it one more time for a Swift conversion. This results in additional runtime overhead. 

To avoid that, access Kotlin strings in Swift directly as an Objective-C `NSString` instead. See the conversion example. 

## **NSMutableString** 

`NSMutableString` Objective-C class is not available from Kotlin. All instances of `NSMutableString` are copied when passed to Kotlin. 

## **Collections** 

## **Kotlin -> Objective-C -> Swift** 

When a Kotlin collection is passed to Swift, it's first converted to an Objective-C equivalent, and then the Swift compiler copies the entire collection and converts it into a Swift-native collection as described in the mappings table. 

This last conversion leads to performance costs. To prevent this, when using Kotlin collections in Swift, explicitly cast them to their Objective-C counterparts: `NSDictionary` , `NSArray` , or `NSSet` . 

## See the conversion example 

For example, the following Kotlin declaration: 

```
val map: Map<String, String>
```

In Swift, might look like this: 

```
map[key].count?0
```

Here, the `map` is implicitly converted to Swift's `Dictionary` , and its string values are mapped to Swift's `String` . This results in a performance cost. 

To avoid the conversion, explicitly cast `map` to Objective-C's `NSDictionary` and access values as `NSString` instead: 

```
let nsMap:NSDictionary=mapasNSDictionary
(nsMap[key]as?NSString).length ?0
```

This ensures that the Swift compiler doesn't perform an additional conversion step. 

941 

## **Swift -> Objective-C -> Kotlin** 

Swift/Objective-C collections are mapped to Kotlin as described in the mappings table, except for `NSMutableSet` and `NSMutableDictionary` . 

`NSMutableSet` isn't converted to a Kotlin's `MutableSet` . To pass an object to Kotlin `MutableSet` , explicitly create this kind of Kotlin collection. To do this, use, for example, the `mutableSetOf()` function in Kotlin or the `KotlinMutableSet` class in Swift and `${prefix}MutableSet` in Objective-C ( `prefix` is the framework names prefix). The same is true for `MutableMap` . 

- See an example in the Kotlin Swift interopedia. 

## **Function types** 

Kotlin function-typed objects (for example, lambdas) are converted to closures in Swift and blocks in Objective-C. - See an example of a Kotlin function with a lambda in the Kotlin Swift interopedia. 

However, there is a difference in how types of parameters and return values are mapped when translating a function and a function type. In the latter case, primitive types are mapped to their boxed representation. Kotlin `Unit` return value is represented as a corresponding `Unit` singleton in Swift/Objective-C. The value of this singleton can be retrieved the same way as for any other Kotlin `object` . See singletons in the table above. 

Consider the following Kotlin function: 

```
funfoo(block:(Int)/> Unit){.}
```

It's represented in Swift as follows: 

```
funcfoo(block:(KotlinInt)>KotlinUnit)
```

And you can call it like this: 

```
foo {
bar($0as!Int32)
returnKotlinUnit()
}
```

## Experimental 

## **Explicit parameter names in Objective-C block types** 

You can add explicit parameter names to Kotlin's function types for exported Objective-C headers. Xcode's autocompletion then suggests these names when calling Objective-C functions in the Objective-C block. This helps to avoid Clang warnings in generated blocks. 

To enable explicit parameter names, add the following binary option to your `gradle.properties` file: 

```
kotlin.native.binary.objcExportBlockExplicitParameterNames=true
```

For example, for the following Kotlin code: 

```
// Kotlin:
fungreetUser(block:(name: String)/> Unit)=block("John")
```

Kotlin forwards the parameter names from Kotlin function types to Objective-C block types, allowing Xcode to use them in suggestions: 

942 

```
// Objective-C:
greetUserBlock:^(NSString *name){
// //.
};
```

This option affects Objective-C interop only. It applies when calling generated Objective-C code from Objective-C in Xcode, and generally doesn't affect calls from Swift. 

## **Generics** 

Objective-C supports "lightweight generics" defined in classes, with a relatively limited feature set. Swift can import generics defined on classes to help provide additional type information to the compiler. 

Generic feature support for Objective-C and Swift differ from Kotlin, so the translation will inevitably lose some information, but the features supported retain meaningful information. 

For specific examples on how to use Kotlin generics in Swift, see the Kotlin-Swift interopedia. 

## **Limitations** 

Objective-C generics do not support all features of either Kotlin or Swift, so there will be some information lost in the translation. 

Generics can only be defined on classes, not on interfaces (protocols in Objective-C and Swift) or functions. 

## **Nullability** 

Kotlin and Swift both define nullability as part of the type specification, while Objective-C defines nullability on methods and properties of a type. So, the following Kotlin code: 

```
class Sample<T>(){
funmyVal(): T
}
```

Looks in Swift like this: 

```
classSample<T>(){
    fun myVal(): T?
}
```

To support a potentially nullable type, the Objective-C header needs to define `myVal` with a nullable return value. 

To mitigate this, when defining your generic classes, provide a non-nullable type constraint if the generic type should never be null: 

```
class Sample<T : Any>(){
funmyVal(): T
}
```

That will force the Objective-C header to mark `myVal` as non-nullable. 

943 

## **Variance** 

Objective-C allows generics to be declared covariant or contravariant. Swift has no support for variance. Generic classes coming from Objective-C can be force-cast as needed. 

```
dataclassSomeData(val num: Int =42):BaseData()
class GenVarOut<out T : Any>(val arg: T)
```

```
let variOut =GenVarOut<SomeData>(arg: sd)
let variOutAny :GenVarOut<BaseData>= variOut as!GenVarOut<BaseData>
```

## **Constraints** 

In Kotlin, you can provide upper bounds for a generic type. Objective-C also supports this, but that support is unavailable in more complex cases and is currently not supported in the Kotlin - Objective-C interop. The exception here being a non-nullable upper bound will make Objective-C methods/properties non-nullable. 

## **To disable** 

To have the framework header written without generics, add the following compiler option in your build file: 

```
binaries.framework{
    freeCompilerArgs +="-Xno-objc-generics"
}
```

## **Forward declarations** 

To import forward declarations, use the `objcnames.classes` and `objcnames.protocols` packages. For example, to import a `objcprotocolName` forward declaration declared in an Objective-C library with a `library.package` , use a special forward declaration package: `import objcnames.protocols.objcprotocolName` . 

Consider two objcinterop libraries: one that uses `objcnames.protocols.ForwardDeclaredProtocolProtocol` and another with an actual implementation in another package: 

```
// First objcinterop library
#import<Foundation/Foundation.h>
@protocol ForwardDeclaredProtocol;
```

```
NSString*consumeProtocol(id<ForwardDeclaredProtocol> s){
return[NSString stringWithUTF8String:"Protocol"];
}
```

```
// Second objcinterop library
// Header:
#import<Foundation/Foundation.h>
@protocol ForwardDeclaredProtocol
@end
// Implementation:
@interface ForwardDeclaredProtocolImpl : NSObject <ForwardDeclaredProtocol>
@end
```

```
id<ForwardDeclaredProtocol>produceProtocol(){
return[ForwardDeclaredProtocolImpl new];
}
```

944 

To transfer objects between the two libraries, use an explicit `as` cast in your Kotlin code: 

```
// Kotlin code:
funtest(){
consumeProtocol(produceProtocol()as objcnames.protocols.ForwardDeclaredProtocolProtocol)
}
```

You can only cast to `objcnames.protocols.ForwardDeclaredProtocolProtocol` from the corresponding real class. Otherwise, you'll get an error. 

## **Casting between mapped types** 

When writing Kotlin code, an object may need to be converted from a Kotlin type to the equivalent Swift/Objective-C type or vice versa. In this case, you can use the `as` cast, for example: 

```
@file:Suppress("CAST_NEVER_SUCCEEDS")
import platform.Foundation.*
val nsNumber =42as NSNumber
val nsArray =listOf(1,2,3)as NSArray
val nsString ="Hello"as NSString
val string = nsString as String
```

IDEs might incorrectly emit "This cast can never succeed" warnings. In such cases, use the `@Suppress("CAST_NEVER_SUCCEEDS")` annotation. 

## **Subclassing** 

## **Subclassing Kotlin classes and interfaces from Swift/Objective-C** 

Kotlin classes and interfaces can be subclassed by Swift/Objective-C classes and protocols. 

## **Subclassing Swift/Objective-C classes and protocols from Kotlin** 

Swift/Objective-C classes and protocols can be subclassed with a Kotlin `final` class. Non- `final` Kotlin classes inheriting Swift/Objective-C types aren't supported yet, so it is not possible to declare a complex class hierarchy inheriting Swift/Objective-C types. 

Normal methods can be overridden using the `override` Kotlin keyword. In this case, the overriding method must have the same parameter names as the overridden one. 

Sometimes it is required to override initializers, for example when subclassing `UIViewController` . Initializers imported as Kotlin constructors can be overridden by Kotlin constructors marked with the `@OverrideInit` annotation: 

```
classViewController:UIViewController{
    @OverrideInitconstructor(coder:NSCoder):super(coder)
//.
}
```

The overriding constructor must have the same parameter names and types as the overridden one. 

945 

To override different methods with clashing Kotlin signatures, you can add the `@ObjCSignatureOverride` annotation to the class. The annotation instructs the Kotlin compiler to ignore conflicting overloads, in case several functions with the same argument types, but different argument names, are inherited from the ObjectiveC class. 

By default, the Kotlin/Native compiler doesn't allow calling a non-designated Objective-C initializer as a `super()` constructor. This behavior can be inconvenient if the designated initializers aren't marked properly in the Objective-C library. To disable these compiler checks, add the `disableDesignatedInitializerChecks = true` to the library's `.def` file. 

## **C features** 

See Interoperability with C for an example case where the library uses some plain C features, such as unsafe pointers, structs, and so on. 

## **Unsupported** 

Some features of the Kotlin programming language are not yet mapped into the respective features of ObjectiveC or Swift. Currently, the following features are not properly exposed in generated framework headers: 

- Inline classes (arguments are mapped as either underlying primitive type or `id` ) 

- Custom classes implementing standard Kotlin collection interfaces ( `List` , `Map` , `Set` ) and other special classes 

- 

- Kotlin subclasses of Objective-C classes 

## **Kotlin/Native as an Apple framework – tutorial** 

- The Objective-C libraries import is in Beta. All Kotlin declarations generated by the cinterop tool from Objective-C libraries should have the `@ExperimentalForeignApi` annotation. 

Native platform libraries shipped with Kotlin/Native (like Foundation, UIKit, and POSIX) require opt-in only for some APIs. 

Kotlin/Native provides bidirectional interoperability with Swift/Objective-C. You can both use Objective-C frameworks and libraries in Kotlin code, and Kotlin modules in Swift/Objective-C code. 

Kotlin/Native comes with a set of pre-imported system frameworks; it's also possible to import an existing framework and use it from Kotlin. In this tutorial, you'll learn how to create your own framework and use Kotlin/Native code from Swift/Objective-C applications on macOS and iOS. 

In this tutorial, you will: 

- Create a Kotlin library and compile it to a framework 

- Examine the generated Swift/Objective-C API code 

- Use the framework from Objective-C 

- Use the framework from Swift 

You can use the command line to generate a Kotlin framework, either directly or with a script file (such as `.sh` or `.bat` file). However, this approach doesn't scale well for larger projects that have hundreds of files and libraries. 

946 

Using a build system simplifies the process by downloading and caching the Kotlin/Native compiler binaries and libraries with transitive dependencies, as well as by running the compiler and tests. Kotlin/Native can use the Gradle build system through the Kotlin Multiplatform plugin. 

If you use a Mac and want to create and run applications for iOS or other Apple targets, you also need to install the Xcode Command Line Tools, launch it, and accept the license terms first. 

## **Create a Kotlin library** 

See the Get started with Kotlin/Native tutorial for detailed first steps and instructions on how to create a new Kotlin/Native project and open it in IntelliJ IDEA. 

The Kotlin/Native compiler can produce a framework for macOS and iOS from the Kotlin code. The created framework contains all declarations and binaries needed to use it with Swift/Objective-C. 

Let's first create a Kotlin library: 

1. In the `src/nativeMain/kotlin` directory, create the `lib.kt` file with the library contents: 

```
package example
object Object {
val field ="A"
}
interface Interface {
funiMember(){}
}
class Clazz : Interface {
funmember(p: Int): ULong?= 42UL
}
funforIntegers(b: Byte, s: UShort, i: Int, l: ULong?){}
funforFloats(f: Float, d: Double?){}
funstrings(str: String?): String {
return"That is '$str' from C"
}
funacceptFun(f:(String)/> String?)=f("Kotlin/Native rocks!")
funsupplyFun():(String)/> String?={"$it is cool!"}
```

2. Update your `build.gradle(.kts)` Gradle build file with the following: 

947 

## **Kotlin** 

```
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.plugin.mpp.KotlinNativeTarget
plugins {
kotlin("multiplatform") version "2.4.0"
}
repositories {
mavenCentral()
}
kotlin {
iosArm64()
// macosArm64()
// iosSimulatorArm64()
    targets.withType<KotlinNativeTarget>().configureEach{
        binaries {
            framework {
                baseName ="Demo"
}
}
}
}
tasks.wrapper{
    gradleVersion ="9.5.0"
    distributionType = Wrapper.DistributionType.ALL
}
```

948 

**Groovy** 

```
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.plugin.mpp.KotlinNativeTarget
plugins {
    id 'org.jetbrains.kotlin.multiplatform' version '2.4.0'
}
repositories {
mavenCentral()
}
kotlin {
iosArm64()
// macosArm64()
// iosSimulatorArm64()
    targets.withType(KotlinNativeTarget).configureEach {
        binaries {
            framework {
                baseName ="Demo"
}
}
}
}
wrapper {
    gradleVersion ="9.5.0"
    distributionType ="ALL"
}
```

The `binaries {}` block configures the project to generate a dynamic or shared library. 

Kotlin/Native supports the `iosArm64` and `iosSimulatorArm64` targets for iOS, as well as the `macosArm64` target for macOS. So, you can replace `iosArm64()` with the respective Gradle function for your target platform: 

Target/device Gradle function macOS ARM64 `macosArm64()` iOS ARM64 `iosArm64()` 

iOS Simulator (ARM64) `iosSimulatorArm64()` 

For information on other supported Apple targets, see Kotlin/Native target support. 

3. To build the framework, run the `linkDebugFramework<YourTargetName>` Gradle task in your IDE or use the console command in your terminal, for example: 

```
./gradlew linkDebugFrameworkIosArm64
```

The build generates the framework into the `build/bin/<yourTargetName>/debugFramework` directory. 

949 

You can also use the general `link<YourTargetName>` Gradle task to generate both `debug` and `release` variants of the framework. 

## **Generated framework headers** 

Each framework variant contains a header file. The headers don't depend on the target platform. Header files contain definitions for your Kotlin code and a few Kotlin-wide declarations. Let's see what's inside. 

## **Kotlin/Native runtime declarations** 

In the `build/bin/<yourTargetName>/debugFramework/Demo.framework/Headers` directory, open the `Demo.h` header file. Take a look at Kotlin runtime declarations: 

```
NS_ASSUME_NONNULL_BEGIN
#pragma clang diagnostic push
#pragma clang diagnostic ignored "-Wunknown-warning-option"
#pragma clang diagnostic ignored "-Wincompatible-property-type"
#pragma clang diagnostic ignored "-Wnullability"
#pragmapush_macro("_Nullable_result")
#if!/_has_feature(nullability_nullable_result)
#undef _Nullable_result
#define _Nullable_result _Nullable
#endif
/_attribute/_((swift_name("KotlinBase")))
@interface DemoBase : NSObject
-(instancetype)init /_attribute/_((unavailable));
+(instancetype)new /_attribute/_((unavailable));
+(void)initialize /_attribute/_((objc_requires_super));
@end
@interfaceDemoBase(DemoBaseCopying)<NSCopying>
@end
/_attribute/_((swift_name("KotlinMutableSet")))
@interface DemoMutableSet<ObjectType>: NSMutableSet<ObjectType>
@end
/_attribute/_((swift_name("KotlinMutableDictionary")))
@interface DemoMutableDictionary<KeyType, ObjectType>: NSMutableDictionary<KeyType, ObjectType>
@end
@interfaceNSError(NSErrorDemoKotlinException)
@property(readonly) id _Nullable kotlinException;
@end
```

Kotlin classes have a `KotlinBase` base class in Swift/Objective-C that extends the `NSObject` class there. There are also wrappers for collections and exceptions. Most of the collection types are mapped to similar collection types in Swift/Objective-C: 

Kotlin Swift Objective-C List Array NSArray 

950 

Swift 

Objective-C 

Kotlin 

|MutableList|NSMutableArray|NSMutableArray|
|---|---|---|
|Set|Set|NSSet|
|MutableSet|NSMutableSet|NSMutableSet|
|Map|Dictionary|NSDictionary|



MutableMap NSMutableDictionary NSMutableDictionary 

## **Kotlin numbers and NSNumber** 

The next part of the `Demo.h` file contains type mappings between Kotlin/Native number types and `NSNumber` . The base class is called `DemoNumber` in Objective-C and `KotlinNumber` in Swift. It extends `NSNumber` . 

For each Kotlin number type, there is a corresponding predefined child class: 

**==> picture [352 x 431] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Kotlin Swift Objective-C Simple type<br>- KotlinNumber <Package>Number -<br>Byte KotlinByte <Package>Byte char<br>UByte KotlinUByte <Package>UByte unsigned char<br>Short KotlinShort <Package>Short short<br>UShort KotlinUShort <Package>UShort unsigned short<br>Int KotlinInt <Package>Int int<br>UInt KotlinUInt <Package>UInt unsigned int<br>Long KotlinLong <Package>Long long long<br>ULong KotlinULong <Package>ULong unsigned long long<br>Float KotlinFloat <Package>Float float<br>Double KotlinDouble <Package>Double double<br>Boolean KotlinBoolean <Package>Boolean BOOL/Bool<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


951 

Every number type has a class method to create a new instance from the corresponding simple type. Also, there is an instance method to extract a simple value back. Schematically, all such declarations look like that: 

```
/_attribute/_((swift_name("Kotlin/_TYPE/_")))
@interface Demo/_TYPE/_ : DemoNumber
-(instancetype)initWith/_TYPE/_:(/_CTYPE/_)value;
+(instancetype)numberWith/_TYPE/_:(/_CTYPE/_)value;
@end;
```

Here, `__TYPE__` is one of the simple type names, and `__CTYPE__` is the corresponding Objective-C type, for example, `initWithChar(char)` . 

These types are used to map boxed Kotlin number types to Swift/Objective-C. In Swift, you can call the constructor to create an instance, for example, `KotlinLong(value: 42)` . 

## **Classes and objects from Kotlin** 

Let's see how `class` and `object` are mapped to Swift/Objective-C. The generated `Demo.h` file contains the exact definitions for `Class` , `Interface` , and `Object` : 

```
/_attribute/_((swift_name("Interface")))
@protocol DemoInterface
@required
-(void)iMember /_attribute/_((swift_name("iMember()")));
@end
/_attribute/_((objc_subclassing_restricted))
/_attribute/_((swift_name("Clazz")))
@interface DemoClazz : DemoBase <DemoInterface>
-(instancetype)init /_attribute/_((swift_name("init()")))
/_attribute/_((objc_designated_initializer));
+(instancetype)new /_attribute/_((availability(swift, unavailable, message="use object initializers
instead")));
-(DemoULong * _Nullable)memberP:(int32_t)p /_attribute/_((swift_name("member(p:)")));
@end
```

```
/_attribute/_((objc_subclassing_restricted))
/_attribute/_((swift_name("Object")))
@interface DemoObject : DemoBase
+(instancetype)alloc /_attribute/_((unavailable));
+(instancetype)allocWithZone:(struct _NSZone *)zone /_attribute/_((unavailable));
+(instancetype)object /_attribute/_((swift_name("init()")));
@property(class, readonly, getter=shared) DemoObject *shared /_attribute/_((swift_name("shared")));
@property(readonly) NSString *field /_attribute/_((swift_name("field")));
@end
```

Objective-C attributes in this code help use the framework from both Swift and Objective-C languages. 

`DemoInterface` , `DemoClazz` , and `DemoObject` are created for `Interface` , `Clazz` , and `Object` , respectively. 

The `Interface` is turned into `@protocol` , while both a `class` and an `object` are represented as `@interface` . The `Demo` prefix comes from the framework name. The nullable return type `ULong?` is turned into `DemoULong` in Objective-C. 

## **Global declarations from Kotlin** 

All global functions from Kotlin are turned into `DemoLibKt` in Objective-C and into `LibKt` in Swift, where `Demo` is the framework name set by the `-output` parameter of `kotlinc-native` : 

952 

```
/_attribute/_((objc_subclassing_restricted))
/_attribute/_((swift_name("LibKt")))
```

```
@interface DemoLibKt : DemoBase
```

```
+(NSString * _Nullable)acceptFunF:(NSString *_Nullable(^)(NSString *))f
```

```
/_attribute/_((swift_name("acceptFun(f:)")));
```

```
+(void)forFloatsF:(float)f d:(DemoDouble * _Nullable)d
```

```
/_attribute/_((swift_name("forFloats(f:d:)")));
```

```
+(void)forIntegersB:(int8_t)b s:(uint16_t)s i:(int32_t)i l:(DemoULong * _Nullable)l
/_attribute/_((swift_name("forIntegers(b:s:i:l:)")));
```

```
+(NSString *)stringsStr:(NSString * _Nullable)str /_attribute/_((swift_name("strings(str:)")));
+(NSString *_Nullable(^)(NSString *))supplyFun /_attribute/_((swift_name("supplyFun()")));
@end
```

Kotlin `String` and Objective-C `NSString*` are mapped transparently. Similarly, `Unit` type from Kotlin is mapped to `void` . The primitive types are mapped directly. Non-nullable primitive types are mapped transparently. Nullable primitive types are mapped to `Kotlin<TYPE>*` types, as shown in the table. Both higherorder functions `acceptFunF` and `supplyFun` are included and accept Objective-C blocks. 

You can find more information about type mapping in Interoperability with Swift/Objective-C. 

## **Garbage collection and reference counting** 

Swift and Objective-C use automatic reference counting (ARC). Kotlin/Native has its own garbage collector, which is also integrated with Swift/Objective-C ARC. 

Unused Kotlin objects are automatically removed. You don't need to take additional steps to control the lifetime of Kotlin/Native instances from Swift or Objective-C. 

## **Use code from Objective-C** 

Let's call the framework from Objective-C. In the framework directory, create the `main.m` file with the following code: 

```
#import<Foundation/Foundation.h>
#import<Demo/Demo.h>
```

```
intmain(int argc,constchar* argv[]){
@autoreleasepool {
[DemoObject.shared field];
```

```
        DemoClazz* clazz =[[ DemoClazz alloc] init];
[clazz memberP:42];
```

```
[DemoLibKt forIntegersB:1 s:1 i:3 l:[DemoULong numberWithUnsignedLongLong:4]];
[DemoLibKt forIntegersB:1 s:1 i:3 l:nil];
```

```
[DemoLibKt forFloatsF:2.71 d:[DemoDouble numberWithDouble:2.71]];
[DemoLibKt forFloatsF:2.71 d:nil];
```

```
        NSString* ret =[DemoLibKt acceptFunF:^NSString *_Nullable(NSString * it){
return[it stringByAppendingString:@" Kotlin is fun"];
}];
NSLog(@"%@", ret);
return0;
}
}
```

953 

Here, you call Kotlin classes directly from Objective-C code. A Kotlin object uses the `<object name>.shared` class property, which allows you to get the object's only instance and call object methods on it. 

The widespread pattern is used to create an instance of the `Clazz` class. You call the `[[ DemoClazz alloc] init]` on Objective-C. You can also use `[DemoClazz new]` for constructors without parameters. 

Global declarations from the Kotlin sources are scoped under the `DemoLibKt` class in Objective-C. All Kotlin functions are turned into class methods of that class. 

The `strings` function is turned into `DemoLibKt.stringsStr` function in Objective-C, so you can pass `NSString` directly to it. The return value is visible as `NSString` too. 

## **Use code from Swift** 

The framework you generated has helper attributes to make it easier to use with Swift. Let's convert the previous Objective-C example into Swift. 

In the framework directory, create the `main.swift` file with the following code: 

```
importFoundation
importDemo
let kotlinObject =Object.shared
let field =Object.shared.field
let clazz =Clazz()
clazz.member(p:42)
LibKt.forIntegers(b:1, s:2, i:3, l:4)
LibKt.forFloats(f:2.71, d:nil)
let ret =LibKt.acceptFun {"\($0) Kotlin is fun"}
if(ret /=nil){
print(ret!)
}
```

There are some small differences between the original Kotlin code and its Swift version. In Kotlin, any object declaration has only one instance. The `Object.shared` syntax is used to access this single instance. 

Kotlin function and property names are translated as is. Kotlin's `String` is turned into Swift's `String` . Swift hides `NSNumber*` boxing too. You can also pass a Swift closure to Kotlin and call a Kotlin lambda function from Swift. 

You can find more information about type mapping in Interoperability with Swift/Objective-C. 

## **Connect the framework to your iOS project** 

Now you can connect the generated framework to your iOS project as a dependency. There are multiple ways to set it up and automate the process, choose the method that suits you best: 

**==> picture [449 x 39] intentionally omitted <==**

Choose iOS integration method 

954 

## **What's next** 

- Learn more about interoperability with Objective-C 

- See how interoperability with C is implemented in Kotlin 

- 

- Check out the Kotlin/Native as a dynamic library tutorial 

## **Interoperability with Swift using Swift export** 

Kotlin's interoperability with Swift through Swift export is currently in Alpha. Swift export allows you to export Kotlin sources directly and call Kotlin code from Swift idiomatically, eliminating the need for Objective-C headers. 

Swift export makes multiplatform development for Apple targets more streamlined. For example, if you have a Kotlin module with top-level functions, Swift export enables clean, module-specific imports, removing the confusing Objective-C underscores and mangled names. 

Current Swift export features are: 

- **Multi-module support** . Each Kotlin module is exported as a separate Swift module, simplifying function calls. 

- **Package support** . Kotlin packages are explicitly preserved during export, avoiding naming conflicts in the generated Swift code. 

- **Type aliases** . Kotlin type aliases are exported and preserved in Swift, improving readability. 

- **Enhanced nullability for primitives** . Unlike Objective-C interop, which required boxing types like `Int?` into wrapper classes like `KotlinInt` to preserve nullability, Swift export converts nullability information directly. 

- **Overloads** . You can call Kotlin's overloaded functions in Swift without ambiguity. 

- **Flattened package structure** . You can translate Kotlin packages into Swift enums, removing the package prefix from generated Swift code. 

- **Module name customization** . You can customize the resulting Swift module names in the Gradle configuration of your Kotlin project. 

- **Concurrency support** . You can seamlessly call suspending Kotlin code from Swift and export `kotlinx.coroutines` flows as Swift's `AsyncSequence` out of the box. 

## **Enable Swift export** 

Swift export is currently in Alpha and still incomplete, so breaking changes are expected. To try it out, configure the build file in your Kotlin project and set up Xcode to integrate Swift export. 

## **Configure Kotlin project** 

You can use the following build file in your project as a starting point for setting up Swift export: 

955 

```
// build.gradle.kts
kotlin {
iosArm64()
iosSimulatorArm64()
    swiftExport {
// Set the root module name
        moduleName ="Shared"
// Set the collapse rule
// Removes package prefix from generated Swift code
        flattenPackage ="com.example.sandbox"
// Configure external modules export
export(project(":subproject")){
// Set the name for the exported module
            moduleName ="Subproject"
// Set the collapse rule for the exported dependency
            flattenPackage ="com.subproject.library"
}
// Provide compiler arguments to link tasks
        configure {
            freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xexpect-actual-classes")
}
}
}
```

The Kotlin compiler automatically generates all the necessary files (including `swiftmodule` files, static `.a` library, a header file, and a `modulemap` file) and copies them into the app's build directory, which you can access from Xcode. 

You can also clone our public sample with Swift export already set up. 

## **Configure Xcode project** 

To configure Xcode to integrate Swift export into your project: 

1. In Xcode, open the project settings. 

2. On the **Build Phases** tab, locate the **Run Script** phase with the `embedAndSignAppleFrameworkForXcode` task. 

3. Replace the script with the `embedSwiftExportForXcode` task in the run script phase: 

```
./gradlew /<Shared module name:embedSwiftExportForXcode
```

956 

**==> picture [511 x 269] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [114 x 9] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Add the Swift export script<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


4. Build the project. The build generates Swift modules in the output directory. 

## **Current limitations** 

Swift export currently works only in projects that use direct integration to connect the iOS framework to the Xcode project. This is a standard configuration for Kotlin Multiplatform projects created with the Kotlin Multiplatform plugin in IntelliJ IDEA or through the web wizard. 

Other known issues: 

- 

   - 

   - Types that inherit from `List` , `Set` , or `Map` are ignored during the export (KT 80416). 

- 

   - 

   - Inheritors of `List` , `Set` , or `Map` cannot be instantiated on the Swift side (KT 80417). 

- 

   - When exported to Swift, Kotlin generic type parameters are type-erased to their upper bounds. 

- Cross-language inheritance is not supported, so Swift classes cannot directly subclass from Kotlin-exported classes or interfaces. 

- No IDE migration tips or automation are available. 

- When using declarations that require opt-in, you must add an explicit `optIn` compiler option at the module level to your Gradle build file. For example, for the `kotlinx.datetime` library: 

957 

```
swiftExport {
    moduleName ="Shared"
export("org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-datetime:0.8.0"){
        moduleName ="KotlinDateTime"
        flattenPackage ="kotlinx.datetime"
}
}
// Add a separate opt-in block at the module level
compilerOptions {
    optIn.add("kotlin.time.ExperimentalTime")
}
```

## **Mappings** 

The table below shows how Kotlin concepts are mapped to Swift. 

**==> picture [270 x 499] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Kotlin Swift<br>class class<br>object class  with  shared  property<br>enum class enum<br>typealias typealias<br>Function Function<br>suspend fun async<br>kotlinx.coroutines  flows AsyncSequence<br>Property Property<br>Constructor Initializer<br>Package Nested enum<br>Boolean Bool<br>Char Unicode.UTF16.CodeUnit<br>Byte Int8<br>Short Int16<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


958 

Swift 

Kotlin 

**==> picture [208 x 363] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Int Int32<br>Long Int64<br>UByte UInt8<br>UShort UInt16<br>UInt UInt32<br>ULong UInt64<br>Float Float<br>Double Double<br>Any KotlinBase  class<br>Unit Void<br>Nothing Never<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


## **Declarations** 

## **Classes** 

Swift export supports only final classes that directly inherit from `Any` , like `class Foo()` . They are translated to Swift classes that inherit from a special `KotlinBase` class: 

```
// Kotlin
class MyClass {
val property: Int =0
funmethod(){}
}
```

959 

```
// Swift
publicclassMyClass:KotlinRuntime.KotlinBase{
publicvar property:Swift.Int32{
get{
// //.
}
}
publicoverrideinit(){
// //.
}
publicfuncmethod()>Swift.Void{
// //.
}
}
```

## **Objects** 

Objects are translated to Swift classes with a private `init` and static `shared` accessor: 

```
// Kotlin
object O
// Swift
publicclassO:KotlinRuntime.KotlinBase{
publicstaticvar shared: O {
get{
// //.
}
}
privateoverrideinit(){
// //.
}
}
```

## **Type aliases** 

Kotlin type aliases are exported as is: 

```
// Kotlin
typealias MyInt = Int
// Swift
publictypealiasMyInt=Swift.Int32
```

## **Enums** 

Kotlin `enum class` declarations are exported as regular native Swift `enum` types: 

960 

```
// Kotlin
enumclassColor(val rgb: Int){
RED(0xFF0000),
GREEN(0x00FF00),
BLUE(0x0000FF)
}
val color = Color.RED
```

```
// Swift
publicenumColor:Swift.CaseIterable,Swift.LosslessStringConvertible,Swift.RawRepresentable{
caseRED,GREEN,BLUE
```

```
publicvar rgb:Swift.Int32{get}
}
```

## **Functions** 

Swift export supports simple top-level functions and methods: 

```
// Kotlin
funfoo(a: Short, b: Bar){}
funbaz(): Long =0
```

```
// Swift
publicfuncfoo(a:Swift.Int16, b:Bar)>Swift.Void{
// //.
}
publicfuncbaz()>Swift.Int64{
// //.
}
```

For Kotlin's extension functions, the receiver parameter becomes an ordinary Swift parameter in the first position: 

```
// Kotlin
fun Int.foo(): Unit =TODO()
// Swift
funcfoo(_ receiver:Int32){}
```

Kotlin's functions with `vararg` are mapped to Swift's variadic function parameters: 

```
// Kotlin
funlog(vararg messages: String)
```

```
// Swift
publicfunclog(messages:Swift.String//.)
```

- Support for functions with the `operator` modifier is currently limited. 

- Generic types are generally not supported. 

961 

## **Properties** 

Kotlin properties are translated to Swift properties: 

```
// Kotlin
val a: Int =0
var b: Short =15
constval c: Int =0
```

```
// Swift
publicvar a:Swift.Int32{
get{
// //.
}
}
publicvar b:Swift.Int16{
get{
// //.
}
set{
// //.
}
}
publicvar c:Swift.Int32{
get{
// //.
}
}
```

## **Constructors** 

Constructors are translated to Swift initializers: 

```
// Kotlin
classFoo(val prop: Int)
// Swift
publicclassFoo:KotlinRuntime.KotlinBase{
publicinit(
        prop:Swift.Int32
){
// //.
}
}
```

## **Types** 

## **kotlin.Nothing** 

The Kotlin `Nothing` type is translated to the `Never` type: 

962 

```
// Kotlin
funfoo(): Nothing =TODO()
```

```
funbaz(input: Nothing){}
```

```
// Swift
publicfuncfoo()>Swift.Never{
// //.
}
publicfuncbaz(input:Swift.Never)>Void{
// //.
}
```

## **Classifier types** 

Swift export currently supports only final classes that directly inherit from `Any` . 

## **Packages** 

Kotlin packages are translated to nested Swift enums to avoid name collisions: 

```
// Kotlin
// bar.kt file in foo.bar package
funcallMeMaybe(){}
// Kotlin
// baz.kt file in foo.baz package
funcallMeMaybe(){}
// Swift
publicextension foo.bar {
publicfunccallMeMaybe(){}
}
publicextension foo.baz {
publicfunccallMeMaybe(){}
}
publicenum foo {
publicenum bar {}
publicenum baz {}
}
```

## **Concurrency** 

## **Suspending functions** 

You can call suspending Kotlin code from Swift. Kotlin suspending functions and suspending functional types are exported as Swift's `async` counterparts: 

963 

```
// Kotlin
suspendfunhello(): String {
delay(1000)
return"Hello Swift! This is Kotlin."
}
// Swift
let msg =tryawaithello()
```

## **Flows** 

You can also export `kotlinx.coroutines` flows as Swift's `AsyncSequence` : 

```
// Kotlin
// Preserves the String type when exporting Flow
funflowOfStrings(): Flow<String>=flowOf("hello","any","world")
```

```
// Swift
var actual:[String]=[]
// Infers the String type from Kotlin
fortryawait element inflowOfStrings().asAsyncSequence(){
    actual.append(element)
}
```

## **Coroutine dispatchers** 

By default, when you call a Kotlin suspending function from Swift or use the `asAsyncSequence` function, Kotlin creates a coroutine context that uses the `Dispatchers.Default` dispatcher and executes the exported code there. 

To run the exported code on a different dispatcher, use the `withContext()` function to switch the coroutine context in Kotlin. For example: 

```
suspendfunrunOnMain(): Int =withContext(Dispatchers.Main){
delay(10L)
42
}
```

## **Evolution of Swift export** 

We're planning to expand and gradually stabilize Swift export in future Kotlin releases, improving interoperability between Kotlin and Swift. You can leave your feedback: 

- In Kotlin Slack – get an invite and join the #swift-export channel. 

- Report issues in YouTrack. 

964 

## **Interoperability with C** 

- The C libraries import is in Beta. All Kotlin declarations generated by the cinterop tool from C libraries should have the `@ExperimentalForeignApi` annotation. 

Native platform libraries shipped with Kotlin/Native (like Foundation, UIKit, and POSIX) require opt-in only for some APIs. 

This document covers general aspects of Kotlin's interoperability with C. Kotlin/Native comes with a cinterop tool, which you can use to quickly generate everything you need to interact with an external C library. 

The tool analyzes C headers and produces a straightforward mapping of C types, functions, and strings into Kotlin. The generated stubs then can be imported into an IDE to enable code completion and navigation. 

Kotlin also provides interoperability with Objective-C. Objective-C libraries are imported through the - cinterop tool as well. For more details, see Swift/Objective C interop. 

## **Setting up your project** 

Here's a general workflow when working with a project that needs to consume a C library: 

1. Create and configure a definition file. It describes what the cinterop tool should include into Kotlin bindings. 

2. Configure your Gradle build file to include cinterop in the build process. 

3. Compile and run the project to produce the final executable. 

## For a hands-on experience, complete the Create an app using C interop tutorial. 

In many cases, there's no need to configure custom interoperability with a C library. Instead, you can use APIs available on the platform standardized bindings called platform libraries. For example, POSIX on Linux/macOS platforms, Win32 on the Windows platform, or Apple frameworks on macOS/iOS are available this way. 

## **Bindings** 

## **Basic interop types** 

All the supported C types have corresponding representations in Kotlin: 

- Signed, unsigned integral, and floating point types are mapped to their Kotlin counterpart with the same width. 

- Pointers and arrays are mapped to `CPointer<T>?` . 

- Enums can be mapped to either Kotlin enum or integral values, depending on heuristics and the definition file settings. 

- Structs and unions are mapped to types having fields available via the dot notation, i.e. `someStructInstance.field1` . 

- `typedef` are represented as `typealias` . 

965 

Also, any C type has the Kotlin type representing the lvalue of this type, i.e., the value located in memory rather than a simple immutable self-contained value. Think C++ references as a similar concept. For structs (and 

`typedef` s to structs), this representation is the main one and has the same name as the struct itself. For Kotlin enums, it's named `${type}.Var` ; for `CPointer<T>` , it's `CPointerVar<T>` ; and for most other types, it's `${type}Var` . 

For types that have both representations, the one with the lvalue has a mutable `.value` property for accessing the value. 

## **Pointer types** 

The type argument `T` of `CPointer<T>` must be one of the lvalue types described above. For example, the C type `struct S*` is mapped to `CPointer<S>` , `int8_t*` is mapped to `CPointer<int_8tVar>` , and `char**` is mapped to `CPointer<CPointerVar<ByteVar>>` . 

C null pointer is represented as Kotlin's `null` , and the pointer type `CPointer<T>` is not nullable, but the `CPointer<T>?` is. The values of this type support all the Kotlin operations related to handling `null` , for example, `?:` , `?.` , `!!` , and so on: 

```
val path =getenv("PATH").toKString()/:""
```

Since the arrays are also mapped to `CPointer<T>` , it supports the `[]` operator for accessing values by index: 

```
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funshift(ptr: CPointer<ByteVar>, length: Int){
for(index in0/. length -2){
        ptr[index]= ptr[index +1]
}
}
```

The `.pointed` property for `CPointer<T>` returns the lvalue of type `T` , pointed by this pointer. The reverse operation is `.ptr` , it takes the lvalue and returns the pointer to it. 

`void*` is mapped to `COpaquePointer` – the special pointer type which is the supertype for any other pointer type. So if the C function takes `void*` , the Kotlin binding accepts any `CPointer` . 

Casting a pointer (including `COpaquePointer` ) can be done with `.reinterpret<T>` , for example: 

```
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
val intPtr = bytePtr.reinterpret<IntVar>()
```

## Or: 

```
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
val intPtr: CPointer<IntVar>= bytePtr.reinterpret()
```

As is with C, these `.reinterpret` casts are unsafe and can potentially lead to subtle memory problems in the application. 

966 

Also, there are unsafe casts between `CPointer<T>?` and `Long` available, provided by the `.toLong()` and `.toCPointer<T>()` extension methods: 

```
val longValue = ptr.toLong()
val originalPtr = longValue.toCPointer<T>()
```

If the type of the result is known from the context, you can omit the type argument thanks to the type inference. 

## **Memory allocation** 

The native memory can be allocated using the `NativePlacement` interface, for example: 

```
@file:OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
val placement: NativePlacement =// See below for placement examples
val byteVar = placement.alloc<ByteVar>()
val bytePtr = placement.allocArray<ByteVar>(5)
```

The most logical placement is in the object `nativeHeap` . It corresponds to allocating native memory with `malloc` and provides an additional `.free()` operation to free allocated memory: 

```
@file:OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
funmain(){
val size: Long =0
val buffer = nativeHeap.allocArray<ByteVar>(size)
    nativeHeap.free(buffer)
}
```

`nativeHeap` requires memory to be freed manually. However, it's often useful to allocate memory with a lifetime bound to the lexical scope. It's helpful if such memory is freed automatically. 

To address this, you can use `memScoped { }` . Inside the braces, the temporary placement is available as an implicit receiver, so it's possible to allocate native memory with alloc and allocArray, and the allocated memory will be automatically freed after leaving the scope. 

For example, a C function returning values through pointer parameters can be used like: 

```
@file:OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
import platform.posix.*
```

```
val fileSize = memScoped {
val statBuf = alloc<stat>()
val error =stat("/", statBuf.ptr)
    statBuf.st_size
}
```

## **Pass pointers to bindings** 

Although C pointers are mapped to the `CPointer<T> type` , C function pointer-typed parameters are mapped to `CValuesRef<T>.` When passing a `CPointer<T>` as a value of such a parameter, it's passed to the C function as 

967 

is. However, a sequence of values can be passed instead of a pointer. In this case, the sequence is passed "by value", i.e., the C function receives the pointer to the temporary copy of that sequence, which is valid only until the function returns. 

The `CValuesRef<T>` representation of pointer parameters is designed to support C array literals without explicit native memory allocation. To construct the immutable self-contained sequence of C values, the following methods are provided: 

- `${type}Array.toCValues()` , where `type` is the Kotlin primitive type 

- `Array<CPointer<T>?>.toCValues()` , `List<CPointer<T>?>.toCValues()` 

- `cValuesOf(vararg elements: ${type})` , where `type` is a primitive or pointer 

For example: 

```
// C:
voidfoo(int* elements,int count);
//.
int elements[]={1,2,3};
foo(elements,3);
// Kotlin:
foo(cValuesOf(1,2,3),3)
```

## **Strings** 

Unlike other pointers, the parameters of type `const char*` are represented as a Kotlin `String` . So it's possible to pass any Kotlin string to a binding expecting a C string. 

There are also some tools available to convert between Kotlin and C strings manually: 

- 

   - `fun CPointer<ByteVar>.toKString(): String` 

- 

- `val String.cstr: CValuesRef<ByteVar>` . 

To get the pointer, `.cstr` should be allocated in native memory, for example: 

```
val cString = kotlinString.cstr.getPointer(nativeHeap)
```

In all cases, the C string is supposed to be encoded as UTF-8. 

To skip automatic conversion and ensure raw pointers are used in the bindings, add the `noStringConversion` property to the `.def` file: 

```
noStringConversion = LoadCursorA LoadCursorW
```

This way, any value of type `CPointer<ByteVar>` can be passed as an argument of `const char*` type. If a Kotlin string should be passed, code like this could be used: 

968 

```
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
```

```
@OptIn(kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
memScoped {
LoadCursorA(null,"cursor.bmp".cstr.ptr)// for ASCII or UTF-8 version
LoadCursorW(null,"cursor.bmp".wcstr.ptr)// for UTF-16 version
}
```

## **Scope-local pointers** 

It's possible to create a scope-stable pointer of C representation for the `CValues<T>` instance using the `CValues<T>.ptr` extension property, available under `memScoped {}` . It allows using APIs that require C pointers with a lifetime bound to a certain `MemScope` . For example: 

```
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
```

```
@OptIn(kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
memScoped {
    items = arrayOfNulls<CPointer<ITEM>?>(6)
arrayOf("one","two").forEachIndexed{ index, value /> items[index]= value.cstr.ptr }
    menu =new_menu("Menu".cstr.ptr, items.toCValues().ptr)
// //.
}
```

In this example, all values passed to the C API `new_menu()` have a lifetime of the innermost `memScope` it belongs to. Once the control flow leaves the `memScoped` scope, C pointers become invalid. 

## **Pass and receive structs by value** 

When a C function takes or returns a struct/union `T` by value, the corresponding argument type or return type is represented as `CValue<T>` . 

`CValue<T>` is an opaque type, so the structure fields cannot be accessed with the appropriate Kotlin properties. This can be fine if an API uses structures as opaque handles. However, if field access is required, the following conversion methods are available: 

- `fun T.readValue(): CValue<T>` converts (the lvalue) `T` to a `CValue<T>` . So to construct the `CValue<T>` , `T` can be allocated, filled, and then converted to `CValue<T>` . 

- `CValue<T>.useContents(block: T.() -> R): R` temporarily stores the `CValue<T>` in memory, and then 

- runs the passed lambda with this placed value `T` as receiver. So to read a single field, you can use the following code: 

```
val fieldValue = structValue.useContents{ field }
```

- `fun cValue(initialize: T.() -> Unit): CValue<T>` applies the provided `initialize` function to allocate `T` in memory and converts the result into a `CValue<T>` . 

- `fun CValue<T>.copy(modify: T.() -> Unit): CValue<T>` creates a modified copy of an existing `CValue<T>` . The original value is placed in memory, altered using the `modify()` function, and then converted 

- back into a new `CValue<T>` . 

- `fun CValues<T>.placeTo(scope: AutofreeScope): CPointer<T>` places the `CValues<T>` into an `AutofreeScope` , returning a pointer to the allocated memory. The allocated memory is automatically freed 

- when the `AutofreeScope` is disposed. 

969 

## **Callbacks** 

To convert a Kotlin function to a pointer to a C function, you can use `staticCFunction(::kotlinFunction)` . It's also possible to provide a lambda instead of a function reference. The function or lambda must not capture any values. 

## **Pass user data to callbacks** 

Often C APIs allow passing some user data to callbacks. Such data is usually provided by the user when configuring the callback. It's passed to some C function (or written to the struct) as `void*` , for example. However, references to Kotlin objects can't be directly passed to C. So they require wrapping before configuring the callback and then unwrapping in the callback itself, to safely swim from Kotlin to Kotlin through the C world. Such wrapping is possible with the `StableRef` class. 

To wrap the reference: 

```
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
```

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
val stableRef = StableRef.create(kotlinReference)
val voidPtr = stableRef.asCPointer()
```

Here, the `voidPtr` is a `COpaquePointer` and can be passed to the C function. 

To unwrap the reference: 

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
val stableRef = voidPtr.asStableRef<KotlinClass>()
val kotlinReference = stableRef.get()
```

Here, `kotlinReference` is the original wrapped reference. 

The created `StableRef` eventually be manually disposed using the `.dispose()` method to prevent memory leaks: 

```
stableRef.dispose()
```

After that it becomes invalid, so `voidPtr` can't be unwrapped anymore. 

## **Macros** 

Every C macro that expands to a constant is represented as a Kotlin property. 

Macros without parameters are supported in cases when the compiler can infer the type: 

```
intfoo(int);
#define FOO foo(42)
```

In this case, `FOO` is available in Kotlin. 

To support other macros, you can expose them manually by wrapping them with supported declarations. For example, function-like macro `FOO` can be exposed as a function `foo()` by adding custom declaration to the library: 

970 

```
headers = library/base.h
```

```
-
```

```
staticinlineintfoo(int arg){
returnFOO(arg);
}
```

## **Portability** 

Sometimes the C libraries have function parameters or struct fields of a platform-dependent type, for example, `long` or `size_t` . Kotlin itself doesn't provide either implicit integer casts or C-style integer casts (for example, `(size_t) intValue` ), so to make writing portable code in such cases easier, the `convert` method is provided: 

## **`fun`** `${type1}.convert ${type2}>(): ${type2}` 

Here, each of `type1` and `type2` must be an integral type, either signed or unsigned. 

`.convert<${type}>` has the same semantics as one of the `.toByte` , `.toShort` , `.toInt` , `.toLong` , `.toUByte` , `.toUShort` , `.toUInt` or `.toULong` methods, depending on `type` . 

An example of using `convert` : 

```
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
import platform.posix.*
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funzeroMemory(buffer: COpaquePointer, size: Int){
memset(buffer,0, size.convert<size_t>())
}
```

Also, the type parameter can be inferred automatically and so may be omitted in some cases. 

## **Object pinning** 

Kotlin objects could be pinned, i.e. their position in memory is guaranteed to be stable until they are unpinned, and pointers to such objects' inner data could be passed to C functions. 

There's a couple of approaches you can take: 

- Use the `.usePinned()` extension function that pins an object, executes a block, and unpins it on normal and exception paths: 

971 

```
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
import platform.posix.*
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funreadData(fd: Int){
val buffer =ByteArray(1024)
    buffer.usePinned{ pinned />
while(true){
val length =recv(fd, pinned.addressOf(0), buffer.size.convert(),0).toInt()
if(length /=0){
break
}
// Now `buffer` has raw data obtained from the `recv()` call.
}
}
}
```

Here, `pinned` is an object of a special type `Pinned<T>` . It provides useful extensions like `.addressOf()` , which allows getting the address of a pinned array body. 

- Use the `.refTo()` extension function that has similar functionality under the hood but, in certain cases, may help you reduce boilerplate code: 

```
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
import platform.posix.*
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funreadData(fd: Int){
val buffer =ByteArray(1024)
while(true){
val length =recv(fd, buffer.refTo(0), buffer.size.convert(),0).toInt()
if(length /=0){
break
}
// Now `buffer` has raw data obtained from the `recv()` call.
}
}
```

Here, `buffer.refTo(0)` has the `CValuesRef` type that pins the array before entering the `recv()` function, passes the address of its zeroth element to the function, and unpins the array after exiting. 

## **Forward declarations** 

To import forward declarations, use the `cnames` package. For example, to import a `cstructName` forward declaration declared in a C library with a `library.package` , use a special forward declaration package: `import cnames.structs.cstructName` . 

Consider two cinterop libraries: one that has a forward declaration of a struct and another with an actual implementation in another package: 

972 

```
// First C library
#include<stdio.h>
```

```
structForwardDeclaredStruct;
```

```
voidconsumeStruct(structForwardDeclaredStruct* s){
printf("Struct consumed\n");
}
```

```
// Second C library
// Header:
#include<stdlib.h>
structForwardDeclaredStruct{
int data;
};
// Implementation:
structForwardDeclaredStruct*produceStruct(){
structForwardDeclaredStruct* s =malloc(sizeof(structForwardDeclaredStruct));
    s/>data =42;
return s;
}
```

To transfer objects between the two libraries, use an explicit `as` cast in your Kotlin code: 

```
// Kotlin code:
funtest(){
consumeStruct(produceStruct()as CPointer<cnames.structs.ForwardDeclaredStruct>)
}
```

## **What's next** 

Learn how types, functions, and strings are mapped between Kotlin and C by completing the following tutorials: 

- Mapping primitive data types from C 

- 

## Mapping struct and union types from C 

- 

## Mapping function pointers from C 

- 

- Mapping strings from C 

## **Mapping primitive data types from C – tutorial** 

The C libraries import is in Beta. All Kotlin declarations generated by the cinterop tool from C libraries should have the `@ExperimentalForeignApi` annotation. 

Native platform libraries shipped with Kotlin/Native (like Foundation, UIKit, and POSIX) require opt-in only for some APIs. 

Let's explore which C data types are visible in Kotlin/Native and vice versa and examine advanced C interoprelated use cases of Kotlin/Native and multiplatform Gradle builds. 

In this tutorial, you'll: 

973 

- 

## Learn about data types in the C language 

- 

   - Create a C Library that uses those types in exports 

- 

## Inspect generated Kotlin APIs from a C library 

You can use the command line to generate a Kotlin library, either directly or with a script file (such as `.sh` or `.bat` file). However, this approach doesn't scale well for larger projects that have hundreds of files and libraries. Using a build system simplifies the process by downloading and caching the Kotlin/Native compiler binaries and libraries with transitive dependencies, as well as by running the compiler and tests. Kotlin/Native can use the Gradle build system through the Kotlin Multiplatform plugin. 

## **Types in C language** 

The C programming language has the following data types: 

- 

   - Basic types: `char, int, float, double` with modifiers `signed, unsigned, short, long` 

- 

   - Structures, unions, arrays 

- 

   - Pointers 

- 

- Function pointers 

There are also more specific types: 

- 

   - Boolean type (from C99) 

- 

   - `size_t` and `ptrdiff_t` (also `ssize_t` ) 

- 

- Fixed width integer types, such as `int32_t` or `uint64_t` (from C99) 

There are also the following type qualifiers in the C language: `const` , `volatile` , `restrict` , `atomic` . 

Let's see which C data types are visible in Kotlin. 

## **Create a C library** 

In this tutorial, you won't create a `lib.c` source file, which is only necessary if you want to compile and run your C library. For this setup, you'll only need a `.h` header file that is required for running the cinterop tool. 

The cinterop tool generates a Kotlin/Native library (a `.klib` file) for each set of `.h` files. The generated library helps bridge calls from Kotlin/Native to C. It includes Kotlin declarations that correspond to the definitions from the `.h` files. 

To create a C library: 

1. Create an empty folder for your future project. 

2. Inside, create a `lib.h` file with the following content to see how C functions are mapped into Kotlin: 

```
#ifndef LIB2_H_INCLUDED
#define LIB2_H_INCLUDED
```

```
voidints(char c,short d,int e,long f);
voiduints(unsignedchar c,unsignedshort d,unsignedint e,unsignedlong f);
voiddoubles(float a,double b);
```

```
#endif
```

974 

The file doesn't have the `extern "C"` block, which is not needed for this example but may be necessary if you use C++ and overloaded functions. See this Stackoverflow thread for more details. 

## 3. Create the `lib.def` definition file with the following content: 

```
headers = lib.h
```

4. It can be helpful to include macros or other C definitions in the code generated by the cinterop tool. This way, method bodies are also compiled and fully included in the binary. With this feature, you can create a runnable example without needing a C compiler. 

To do that, add implementations to the C functions from the `lib.h` file to a new `interop.def` file after the `---` separator: 

```
-
voidints(char c,short d,int e,long f){}
voiduints(unsignedchar c,unsignedshort d,unsignedint e,unsignedlong f){}
voiddoubles(float a,double b){}
```

The `interop.def` file provides everything necessary to compile, run, or open the application in an IDE. 

## **Create a Kotlin/Native project** 

See the Get started with Kotlin/Native tutorial for detailed first steps and instructions on how to create a new Kotlin/Native project and open it in IntelliJ IDEA. 

To create project files: 

1. In your project folder, create a `build.gradle(.kts)` Gradle build file with the following content: 

975 

## **Kotlin** 

```
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.plugin.mpp.KotlinNativeTarget
plugins {
kotlin("multiplatform") version "2.4.0"
}
repositories {
mavenCentral()
}
kotlin {
macosArm64()// macOS on Apple Silicon
// linuxArm64() // Linux on ARM64 platforms
// linuxX64()   // Linux on x86_64 platforms
// mingwX64()   // Windows on x86_64 platforms
    targets.withType<KotlinNativeTarget>().configureEach{
val main by compilations.getting
val interop by main.cinterops.creating
        binaries {
executable()
}
}
}
tasks.wrapper{
    gradleVersion ="9.5.0"
    distributionType = Wrapper.DistributionType.BIN
}
```

976 

**Groovy** 

```
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.plugin.mpp.KotlinNativeTarget
plugins {
    id 'org.jetbrains.kotlin.multiplatform' version '2.4.0'
}
repositories {
mavenCentral()
}
kotlin {
macosArm64()// Apple Silicon macOS
// linuxArm64() // Linux on ARM64 platforms
// linuxX64()   // Linux on x86_64 platforms
// mingwX64()   // Windows
    targets.withType(KotlinNativeTarget).configureEach {
        compilations.main.cinterops {
            interop
}
        binaries {
executable()
}
}
}
wrapper {
    gradleVersion ='9.5.0'
    distributionType ='BIN'
}
```

The project file configures the C interop as an additional build step. Check out the Multiplatform Gradle DSL reference to learn about different ways you can configure it. 

2. 

   - Move your `interop.def` , `lib.h` , and `lib.def` files to the `src/nativeInterop/cinterop` directory. 

3. Create a `src/nativeMain/kotlin` directory. This is where you should place all the source files, following Gradle's recommendations on using conventions instead of configurations. 

By default, all the symbols from C are imported to the `interop` package. 

4. In `src/nativeMain/kotlin` , create a `hello.kt` stub file with the following content: 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funmain(){
println("Hello Kotlin/Native!")
ints(/* fix me//)
uints(/* fix me//)
doubles(/* fix me//)
}
```

You'll complete the code later as you learn how C primitive type declarations look from the Kotlin side. 

977 

## **Inspect generated Kotlin APIs for a C library** 

Let's see how C primitive types are mapped into Kotlin/Native and update the example project accordingly. 

Use IntelliJ IDEA's Go to declaration command (Cmd + B/Ctrl + B) to navigate to the following generated API for C functions: 

```
funints(c: kotlin.Byte, d: kotlin.Short, e: kotlin.Int, f: kotlin.Long)
funuints(c: kotlin.UByte, d: kotlin.UShort, e: kotlin.UInt, f: kotlin.ULong)
fundoubles(a: kotlin.Float, b: kotlin.Double)
```

C types are mapped directly, except for the `char` type, which is mapped to `kotlin.Byte` as it's usually an 8-bit signed value: 

|C|Kotlin|
|---|---|
|char|kotlin.Byte|
|unsigned char|kotlin.UByte|
|short|kotlin.Short|
|unsigned short|kotlin.UShort|
|int|kotlin.Int|
|unsigned int|kotlin.UInt|
|long long|kotlin.Long|
|unsigned long long|kotlin.ULong|
|float|kotlin.Float|
|double|kotlin.Double|



## **Update Kotlin code** 

Now that you've seen the C definitions, you can update your Kotlin code. The final code in the `hello.kt` file may look like this: 

978 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funmain(){
println("Hello Kotlin/Native!")
ints(1,2,3,4)
uints(5u, 6u, 7u, 8u)
doubles(9.0f,10.0)
}
```

To verify that everything works as expected, run the `runDebugExecutable<YourTargetName>` Gradle task in your IDE or use the console command in your terminal, in this example: 

```
./gradlew runDebugExecutableMacosArm64
```

## **Next step** 

In the next part of the series, you'll learn how struct and union types are mapped between Kotlin and C: 

Proceed to the next part 

## **See also** 

Learn more in the Interoperability with C documentation that covers more advanced scenarios. 

## **Mapping struct and union types from C – tutorial** 

- The C libraries import is in Beta. All Kotlin declarations generated by the cinterop tool from C libraries should have the `@ExperimentalForeignApi` annotation. 

Native platform libraries shipped with Kotlin/Native (like Foundation, UIKit, and POSIX) require opt-in only for some APIs. 

Let's explore which C struct and union declarations are visible from Kotlin and examine advanced C interoprelated use cases of Kotlin/Native and multiplatform Gradle builds. 

In the tutorial, you'll learn: 

- How struct and union types are mapped 

- How to use struct and union types from Kotlin 

## **Mapping struct and union C types** 

To understand how Kotlin maps struct and union types, let's declare them in C and examine how they are represented in Kotlin. 

In the previous tutorial, you've already created a C library with the necessary files. For this step, update the declarations in the `interop.def` file after the `---` separator: 

979 

```
-
typedefstruct{
int a;
double b;
} MyStruct;
```

```
voidstruct_by_value(MyStruct s){}
voidstruct_by_pointer(MyStruct* s){}
typedefunion{
int a;
  MyStruct b;
float c;
} MyUnion;
voidunion_by_value(MyUnion u){}
voidunion_by_pointer(MyUnion* u){}
```

The `interop.def` file provides everything necessary to compile, run, or open the application in an IDE. 

## **Inspect generated Kotlin APIs for a C library** 

Let's see how C struct and union types are mapped into Kotlin/Native and update your project: 

1. In `src/nativeMain/kotlin` , update your `hello.kt` file from the previous tutorial with the following content: 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funmain(){
println("Hello Kotlin/Native!")
struct_by_value(/* fix me//)
struct_by_pointer(/* fix me//)
union_by_value(/* fix me//)
union_by_pointer(/* fix me//)
}
```

2. To avoid compiler errors, add interoperability to the build process. For that, update your `build.gradle(.kts)` build file with the following content: 

980 

## **Kotlin** 

```
kotlin {
macosArm64()// macOS on Apple Silicon
// linuxArm64() // Linux on ARM64 platforms
// linuxX64()   // Linux on x86_64 platforms
// mingwX64()   // on Windows
    targets.withType<KotlinNativeTarget>().configureEach{
val main by compilations.getting
val interop by main.cinterops.creating{
            definitionFile.set(project.file("src/nativeInterop/cinterop/interop.def"))
}
        binaries {
executable()
}
}
}
```

**Groovy** `kotlin { macosArm64() // Apple Silicon macOS // linuxArm64() // Linux on ARM64 platforms // linuxX64()   // Linux on x86_64 platforms // mingwX64()   // Windows targets.withType(KotlinNativeTarget).configureEach { compilations.main.cinterops { interop { definitionFile = project.file(` **`'src/nativeInterop/cinterop/interop.def'`** `) } } binaries { executable() } } }` 

3. Use IntelliJ IDEA's Go to declaration command (Cmd + B/Ctrl + B) to navigate to the following generated API for C functions, struct, and union: 

```
funstruct_by_value(s: kotlinx.cinterop.CValue<interop.MyStruct>)
funstruct_by_pointer(s: kotlinx.cinterop.CValuesRef<interop.MyStruct>?)
```

```
fununion_by_value(u: kotlinx.cinterop.CValue<interop.MyUnion>)
fununion_by_pointer(u: kotlinx.cinterop.CValuesRef<interop.MyUnion>?)
```

Technically, there is no difference between struct and union types on the Kotlin side. The cinterop tool generates Kotlin types for both struct and union C declarations. 

The generated API includes fully qualified package names for `CValue<T>` and `CValuesRef<T>` , reflecting their location in `kotlinx.cinterop` . `CValue<T>` represents a by-value structure parameter, while `CValuesRef<T>?` is used to pass a pointer to a structure or a union. 

981 

## **Use struct and union types from Kotlin** 

Using C struct and union types from Kotlin is straightforward thanks to the generated API. The only question is how to create new instances of these types. 

Let's take a look at the generated functions that take `MyStruct` and `MyUnion` as parameters. By-value parameters are represented as `kotlinx.cinterop.CValue<T>` , while pointer-typed parameters use `kotlinx.cinterop.CValuesRef<T>?` . 

Kotlin provides a convenient API for creating and working with these types. Let's explore how to use it in practice. 

## **Create a CValue<T>** 

`CValue<T>` type is used to pass by-value parameters to a C function call. Use the `cValue` function to create a `CValue<T>` instance. The function requires a lambda function with a receiver to initialize the underlying C type in-place. The function is declared as follows: 

```
fun<reified T : CStructVar>cValue(initialize: T.()/> Unit): CValue<T>
```

Here's how to use `cValue` and pass by-value parameters: 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
import kotlinx.cinterop.cValue
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funcallValue(){
val cStruct = cValue<MyStruct>{
        a =42
        b =3.14
}
struct_by_value(cStruct)
val cUnion = cValue<MyUnion>{
        b.a =5
        b.b =2.7182
}
union_by_value(cUnion)
}
```

## **Create struct and union as CValuesRef<T>** 

The `CValuesRef<T>` type is used in Kotlin to pass a pointer-typed parameter of a C function. To allocate `MyStruct` and `MyUnion` in the native memory, use the following extension function on `kotlinx.cinterop.NativePlacement` type: 

```
fun<reified T : kotlinx.cinterop.CVariable>alloc(): T
```

`NativePlacement` represents native memory with functions similar to `malloc` and `free` . There are several implementations of `NativePlacement` : 

- The global implementation is `kotlinx.cinterop.nativeHeap` , but you must call `nativeHeap.free()` to release the memory after use. 

982 

- A safer alternative is `memScoped()` , which creates a short-lived memory scope where all allocations are automatically freed at the end of the block: 

```
fun<R>memScoped(block: kotlinx.cinterop.MemScope.()/> R): R
```

With `memScoped()` , your code for calling functions with pointers can look like this: 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
import kotlinx.cinterop.memScoped
import kotlinx.cinterop.alloc
import kotlinx.cinterop.ptr
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funcallRef(){
    memScoped {
val cStruct = alloc<MyStruct>()
        cStruct.a =42
        cStruct.b =3.14
struct_by_pointer(cStruct.ptr)
val cUnion = alloc<MyUnion>()
        cUnion.b.a =5
        cUnion.b.b =2.7182
union_by_pointer(cUnion.ptr)
}
}
```

Here, the `ptr` extension property, which is available within the `memScoped {}` block, converts `MyStruct` and `MyUnion` instances into native pointers. 

Since memory is managed inside the `memScoped {}` block, it's automatically freed at the end of the block. Avoid using pointers outside of this scope to prevent accessing deallocated memory. If you need longer-lived allocations (for example, for caching in a C library), consider using `Arena()` or `nativeHeap` . 

## **Conversion between CValue<T> and CValuesRef<T>** 

Sometimes you need to pass a struct as a value in one function call and then pass the same struct as a reference in another. 

To do this, you'll need a `NativePlacement` , but first, let's see how `CValue<T>` is turned into a pointer: 

983 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
import kotlinx.cinterop.cValue
import kotlinx.cinterop.memScoped
```

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funcallMix_ref(){
val cStruct = cValue<MyStruct>{
        a =42
        b =3.14
}
    memScoped {
struct_by_pointer(cStruct.ptr)
}
}
```

Here again, the `ptr` extension property from `memScoped {}` turns `MyStruct` instances into native pointers. These pointers are only valid inside the `memScoped {}` block. 

To turn a pointer back into a by-value variable, call the `.readValue()` extension function: 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.alloc
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
import kotlinx.cinterop.memScoped
import kotlinx.cinterop.readValue
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funcallMix_value(){
    memScoped {
val cStruct = alloc<MyStruct>()
        cStruct.a =42
        cStruct.b =3.14
struct_by_value(cStruct.readValue())
}
}
```

## **Update Kotlin code** 

Now that you've learned how to use C declarations in Kotlin code, try to use them in your project. The final code in the `hello.kt` file may look like this: 

984 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.alloc
import kotlinx.cinterop.cValue
import kotlinx.cinterop.memScoped
import kotlinx.cinterop.ptr
import kotlinx.cinterop.readValue
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
```

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funmain(){
println("Hello Kotlin/Native!")
val cUnion = cValue<MyUnion>{
        b.a =5
        b.b =2.7182
}
    memScoped {
union_by_value(cUnion)
union_by_pointer(cUnion.ptr)
}
    memScoped {
val cStruct = alloc<MyStruct>{
            a =42
            b =3.14
}
struct_by_value(cStruct.readValue())
struct_by_pointer(cStruct.ptr)
}
}
```

To verify that everything works as expected, run the `runDebugExecutable<YourTargetName>` Gradle task in your IDE or use the console command in your terminal, in this example: 

```
./gradlew runDebugExecutableMacosArm64
```

## **Next step** 

In the next part of the series, you'll learn how function pointers are mapped between Kotlin and C: 

Proceed to the next part 

## **See also** 

Learn more in the Interoperability with C documentation that covers more advanced scenarios. 

## **Mapping function pointers from C – tutorial** 

The C libraries import is in Beta. All Kotlin declarations generated by the cinterop tool from C libraries should have the `@ExperimentalForeignApi` annotation. 

Native platform libraries shipped with Kotlin/Native (like Foundation, UIKit, and POSIX) require opt-in only for some APIs. 

985 

Let's explore which C function pointers are visible from Kotlin and examine advanced C interop-related use cases of Kotlin/Native and multiplatform Gradle builds. 

In this tutorial, you'll: 

- Learn how to pass Kotlin function as a C function pointer 

- Use C function pointers from Kotlin 

## **Mapping function pointer types from C** 

To understand the mapping between Kotlin and C, let's declare two functions: one that accepts a function pointer as a parameter and another that returns a function pointer. 

In the first part of the series, you've already created a C library with the necessary files. For this step, update the declarations in the `interop.def` file after the `---` separator: 

```
-
intmyFun(int i){
return i+1;
}
typedefint(*MyFun)(int);
voidaccept_fun(MyFun f){
f(42);
}
MyFun supply_fun(){
return myFun;
}
```

The `interop.def` file provides everything necessary to compile, run, or open the application in an IDE. 

## **Inspect generated Kotlin APIs for a C library** 

Let's see how C function pointers are mapped into Kotlin/Native and update your project: 

1. In `src/nativeMain/kotlin` , update your `hello.kt` file from the previous tutorial with the following content: 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funmain(){
println("Hello Kotlin/Native!")
accept_fun(/* fix me//)
val useMe =supply_fun()
}
```

2. Use IntelliJ IDEA's Go to declaration command (Cmd + B/Ctrl + B) to navigate to the following generated API for C functions: 

986 

```
funmyFun(i: kotlin.Int): kotlin.Int
```

```
funaccept_fun(f: kotlinx.cinterop.CPointer<kotlinx.cinterop.CFunction<(kotlin.Int)/>
kotlin.Int>?/* from: interop.MyFun? //)
```

```
funsupply_fun(): kotlinx.cinterop.CPointer<kotlinx.cinterop.CFunction<(kotlin.Int)/>
kotlin.Int>?/* from: interop.MyFun? //
```

As you can see, C function pointers are represented in Kotlin using `CPointer<CFunction<...>>` . The 

`accept_fun()` function takes an optional function pointer as a parameter, while `supply_fun()` returns a function pointer. 

`CFunction<(Int) -> Int>` represents the function signature, and `CPointer<CFunction<...>>?` represents a nullable function pointer. There is an `.invoke()` operator extension function available for all 

`CPointer<CFunction<...>>` types, allowing you to call function pointers as if they were regular Kotlin functions. 

## **Pass Kotlin function as a C function pointer** 

It's time to try using C functions from Kotlin code. Call the `accept_fun()` function and pass the C function pointer to a Kotlin lambda: 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.staticCFunction
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
```

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funmyFun(){
accept_fun(staticCFunction<Int, Int>{ it +1})
}
```

This call uses the `staticCFunction {}` helper function from Kotlin/Native to wrap a Kotlin lambda function into a C function pointer. It allows only unbound and non-capturing lambda functions. For example, it cannot capture a local variable from the function, only globally visible declarations. 

Ensure that the function doesn't throw any exceptions. Throwing exceptions from a `staticCFunction {}` causes non-deterministic side effects. 

## **Use the C function pointer from Kotlin** 

The next step is to invoke a C function pointer returned from the `supply_fun()` call: 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
import kotlinx.cinterop.invoke
```

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funmyFun2(){
```

```
val functionFromC =supply_fun()/:error("No function is returned")
```

```
functionFromC(42)
}
```

Kotlin turns the function pointer return type into a nullable `CPointer<CFunction<>` object. You need to first explicitly check for `null` , which is why the Elvis operator is used in the code above. The cinterop tool allows you to call a C function pointer as a regular Kotlin function call: `functionFromC(42)` . 

987 

## **Update Kotlin code** 

Now that you've seen all the definitions, try to use them in your project. The code in the `hello.kt` file may look like this: 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
import kotlinx.cinterop.invoke
import kotlinx.cinterop.staticCFunction
```

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funmain(){
println("Hello Kotlin/Native!")
val cFunctionPointer = staticCFunction<Int, Int>{ it +1}
accept_fun(cFunctionPointer)
```

```
val funFromC =supply_fun()/:error("No function is returned")
funFromC(42)
}
```

To verify that everything works as expected, run the `runDebugExecutable<YourTargetName>` Gradle task in your IDE or use the console command in your terminal, in this example: 

```
./gradlew runDebugExecutableMacosArm64
```

## **Next step** 

In the next part of the series, you'll learn how strings are mapped between Kotlin and C: 

## Proceed to the next part 

## **See also** 

Learn more in the Interoperability with C documentation that covers more advanced scenarios. 

## **Mapping strings from C – tutorial** 

- The C libraries import is in Beta. All Kotlin declarations generated by the cinterop tool from C libraries should have the `@ExperimentalForeignApi` annotation. 

Native platform libraries shipped with Kotlin/Native (like Foundation, UIKit, and POSIX) require opt-in only for some APIs. 

In the final part of the series, let's see how to deal with C strings in Kotlin/Native. 

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to: 

- Pass a Kotlin string to C 

- Read a C string in Kotlin 

- Receive C string bytes into a Kotlin string 

988 

## **Working with C strings** 

C doesn't have a dedicated string type. Method signatures or documentation can help you identify whether a given `char *` represents a C string in a particular context. 

Strings in the C language are null-terminated, so a trailing zero character `\0` is added to the end of a byte - sequence to mark the end of a string. Usually, UTF 8 encoded strings are used. The UTF-8 encoding uses variable-width characters and is backward-compatible with ASCII. Kotlin/Native uses UTF-8 character encoding by default. 

To understand how strings are mapped between Kotlin and C, first create the library headers. In the first part of the series, you've already created a C library with the necessary files. For this step: 

1. Update your `lib.h` file with the following function declarations that work with C strings: 

```
#ifndef LIB2_H_INCLUDED
#define LIB2_H_INCLUDED
voidpass_string(char* str);
char*return_string();
intcopy_string(char* str,int size);
```

```
#endif
```

This example shows common ways to pass or receive a string in the C language. Handle the return value of the `return_string()` function carefully. Ensure you use the correct `free()` function to release the returned `char*` . 

2. Update the declarations in the `interop.def` file after the `---` separator: 

```
-
voidpass_string(char* str){
}
char*return_string(){
return"C string";
}
intcopy_string(char* str,int size){
*str/+='C';
*str/+=' ';
*str/+='K';
*str/+='/';
*str/+='N';
*str/+=0;
return0;
}
```

The `interop.def` file provides everything necessary to compile, run, or open the application in an IDE. 

## **Inspect generated Kotlin APIs for a C library** 

Let's see how C string declarations are mapped into Kotlin/Native: 

1. In `src/nativeMain/kotlin` , update your `hello.kt` file from the previous tutorial with the following content: 

989 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
```

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funmain(){
println("Hello Kotlin/Native!")
pass_string(/*fix me//)
val useMe =return_string()
val useMe2 =copy_string(/*fix me//)
}
```

2. Use IntelliJ IDEA's Go to declaration command (Cmd + B/Ctrl + B) to navigate to the following generated API for C functions: 

```
funpass_string(str: kotlinx.cinterop.CValuesRef<kotlinx.cinterop.ByteVarOf<kotlin.Byte>/* from:
kotlinx.cinterop.ByteVar //>?)
funreturn_string(): kotlinx.cinterop.CPointer<kotlinx.cinterop.ByteVarOf<kotlin.Byte>/* from:
kotlinx.cinterop.ByteVar //>?
funcopy_string(str: kotlinx.cinterop.CValuesRef<kotlinx.cinterop.ByteVarOf<kotlin.Byte>/* from:
kotlinx.cinterop.ByteVar //>?, size: kotlin.Int): kotlin.Int
```

These declarations are straightforward. In Kotlin, C `char *` pointers are mapped into `str: CValuesRef<ByteVarOf>?` for parameters and into `CPointer<ByteVarOf>?` for return types. Kotlin represents the `char` type as `kotlin.Byte` , as it's usually an 8-bit signed value. 

In the generated Kotlin declarations, `str` is defined as `CValuesRef<ByteVarOf<Byte>>?` . Since this type is nullable, you can pass `null` as the argument value. 

## **Pass Kotlin strings to C** 

Let's try to use the API from Kotlin. Call the `pass_string()` function first: 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
import kotlinx.cinterop.cstr
```

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funpassStringToC(){
val str ="This is a Kotlin string"
pass_string(str.cstr)
}
```

Passing a Kotlin string to C is straightforward, thanks to the `String.cstr` extension property. There is also the `String.wcstr` property for cases that involve UTF-16 characters. 

## **Read C strings in Kotlin** 

Now take a returned `char *` from the `return_string()` function and turn it into a Kotlin string: 

990 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
import kotlinx.cinterop.toKString
```

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funpassStringToC(){
val stringFromC =return_string().toKString()
println("Returned from C: $stringFromC")
}
```

Here, the `.toKString()` extension function converts a C string returned from the `return_string()` function into a Kotlin string. 

Kotlin provides several extension functions for converting C `char *` strings into Kotlin strings, depending on the encoding: 

```
fun CPointer<ByteVarOf<Byte>.toKString(): String // Standard function for UTF-8 strings
fun CPointer<ByteVarOf<Byte>.toKStringFromUtf8(): String // Explicitly converts UTF-8 strings
fun CPointer<ShortVarOf<Short>.toKStringFromUtf16(): String // Converts UTF-16 encoded strings
fun CPointer<IntVarOf<Int>.toKStringFromUtf32(): String // Converts UTF-32 encoded strings
```

## **Receive C string bytes from Kotlin** 

This time, use the `copy_string()` C function to write a C string to a given buffer. It takes two arguments: a pointer to the memory location where the string should be written and the allowed buffer size. 

The function should also return something to indicate if it has succeeded or failed. Let's assume `0` means it succeeded, and the supplied buffer was big enough: 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.ExperimentalForeignApi
import kotlinx.cinterop.addressOf
import kotlinx.cinterop.usePinned
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funsendString(){
val buf =ByteArray(255)
    buf.usePinned{ pinned />
if(copy_string(pinned.addressOf(0), buf.size -1)/=0){
throwError("Failed to read string from C")
}
}
val copiedStringFromC = buf.decodeToString()
println("Message from C: $copiedStringFromC")
}
```

Here, a native pointer is passed to the C function first. The `.usePinned()` extension function temporarily pins the native memory address of the byte array. The C function fills in the byte array with data. Another extension function, `ByteArray.decodeToString()` , turns the byte array into a Kotlin string, assuming UTF-8 encoding. 

## **Update Kotlin code** 

Now that you've learned how to use C declarations in Kotlin code, try to use them in your project. The code in the final `hello.kt` file may look like this: 

991 

```
import interop.*
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi/:class)
funmain(){
println("Hello Kotlin/Native!")
val str ="This is a Kotlin string"
pass_string(str.cstr)
val useMe =return_string().toKString()/:error("null pointer returned")
println(useMe)
val copyFromC =ByteArray(255).usePinned{ pinned />
val useMe2 =copy_string(pinned.addressOf(0), pinned.get().size -1)
if(useMe2 /=0)throwError("Failed to read a string from C")
        pinned.get().decodeToString()
}
println(copyFromC)
}
```

To verify that everything works as expected, run the `runDebugExecutable<YourTargetName>` Gradle task in your IDE or use the console command in your terminal, in this example: 

```
./gradlew runDebugExecutableMacosArm64
```

## **What's next** 

Learn more in the Interoperability with C documentation that covers more advanced scenarios. 

## **Kotlin/Native as a dynamic library – tutorial** 

You can create dynamic libraries to use Kotlin code from existing programs. This enables code sharing across many platforms or languages, including JVM, Python, Android, and others. 

For iOS and other Apple targets, we recommend generating a framework. See the Kotlin/Native as an Apple framework tutorial. 

You can use the Kotlin/Native code from existing native applications or libraries. For this, you need to compile the Kotlin code into a dynamic library in the `.so` , `.dylib` , or `.dll` format. 

In this tutorial, you will: 

- 

## Compile Kotlin code to a dynamic library 

- Examine generated C headers 

- Use the Kotlin dynamic library from C 

- 

## Compile and run the project 

You can use the command line to generate a Kotlin library, either directly or with a script file (such as `.sh` or `.bat` file). However, this approach doesn't scale well for larger projects that have hundreds of files and libraries. Using a build system simplifies the process by downloading and caching the Kotlin/Native compiler binaries and 

992 

libraries with transitive dependencies, as well as by running the compiler and tests. Kotlin/Native can use the Gradle build system through the Kotlin Multiplatform plugin. 

Let's examine the advanced C interop-related usages of Kotlin/Native and Kotlin Multiplatform builds with Gradle. 

If you use a Mac and want to create and run applications for macOS or other Apple targets, you also need to install the Xcode Command Line Tools, launch it, and accept the license terms first. 

## **Create a Kotlin library** 

The Kotlin/Native compiler can produce a dynamic library from the Kotlin code. A dynamic library often comes with a `.h` header file, which you use to call the compiled code from C. 

Let's create a Kotlin library and use it from a C program. 

See the Get started with Kotlin/Native tutorial for detailed first steps and instructions on how to create a new Kotlin/Native project and open it in IntelliJ IDEA. 

1. Navigate to the `src/nativeMain/kotlin` directory and create the `lib.kt` file with the following library contents: 

```
package example
object Object {
val field ="A"
}
class Clazz {
funmemberFunction(p: Int): ULong = 42UL
}
funforIntegers(b: Byte, s: Short, i: UInt, l: Long){}
funforFloats(f: Float, d: Double){}
funstrings(str: String): String?{
return"That is '$str' from C"
}
val globalString ="A global String"
```

2. Update your `build.gradle(.kts)` Gradle build file with the following: 

993 

## **Kotlin** 

```
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.plugin.mpp.KotlinNativeTarget
plugins {
kotlin("multiplatform") version "2.4.0"
}
repositories {
mavenCentral()
}
kotlin {
macosArm64()// macOS on Apple Silicon
// linuxArm64() // Linux on ARM64 platforms
// linuxX64()   // Linux on x86_64 platforms
// mingwX64()   // on Windows
    targets.withType<KotlinNativeTarget>().configureEach{
        binaries {
            sharedLib {
                baseName ="native"// macOS
// baseName = "native"    // Linux
// baseName = "libnative" // Windows
}
}
}
}
tasks.wrapper{
    gradleVersion ="9.5.0"
    distributionType = Wrapper.DistributionType.ALL
}
```

994 

## **Groovy** 

```
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.plugin.mpp.KotlinNativeTarget
plugins {
    id 'org.jetbrains.kotlin.multiplatform' version '2.4.0'
}
repositories {
mavenCentral()
}
kotlin {
macosArm64()// Apple Silicon macOS
// linuxArm64() // Linux on ARM64 platforms
// linuxX64()   // Linux on x86_64 platforms
// mingwX64()   // Windows
    targets.withType(KotlinNativeTarget).configureEach {
        binaries {
            sharedLib {
                baseName ="native"// macOS
// baseName = "native"    // Linux
// baseName = "libnative" // Windows
}
}
}
}
wrapper {
    gradleVersion ="9.5.0"
    distributionType ="ALL"
}
```

   - The `binaries {}` block configures the project to generate a dynamic or shared library. 

   - `libnative` is used as the library name, the prefix for the generated header file name. It also prefixes all 

   - declarations in the header file. 

3. To build the library, run the `linkDebugShared<YourTargetName>` Gradle task in your IDE or use the console command in your terminal, in this example: 

## `./gradlew linkDebugSharedMacosArm64` 

The build generates the library into the `build/bin/<yourTargetName>/debugShared` directory with the following files: 

- macOS: `libnative_api.h` and `libnative.dylib` 

- Linux: `libnative_api.h` and `libnative.so` 

- Windows: `libnative_api.h` , `libnative.def` , and `libnative.dll` 

   - You can also use the `linkNative` Gradle task to generate both `debug` and `release` variants of the library. 

995 

The Kotlin/Native compiler uses the same rules to generate the `.h` file for all platforms. Let's check out the C API of the Kotlin library. 

## **Generated header file** 

Let's examine how Kotlin/Native declarations are mapped to C functions. 

In the `build/bin/<yourTargetName>/debugShared` directory, open the `libnative_api.h` header file. The very first part contains the standard C/C++ header and footer: 

```
#ifndef KONAN_LIBNATIVE_H
#define KONAN_LIBNATIVE_H
#ifdef /_cplusplus
extern"C"{
#endif
/// The rest of the generated code
```

```
#ifdef /_cplusplus
}/* extern "C" //
#endif
#endif/* KONAN_LIBNATIVE_H //
```

Following this, the `libnative_api.h` includes a block with the common type definitions: 

```
#ifdef /_cplusplus
typedef bool            libnative_KBoolean;
#else
typedef_Bool           libnative_KBoolean;
#endif
typedefunsignedshort     libnative_KChar;
typedefsignedchar        libnative_KByte;
typedefshort              libnative_KShort;
typedefint                libnative_KInt;
typedeflonglong          libnative_KLong;
typedefunsignedchar      libnative_KUByte;
typedefunsignedshort     libnative_KUShort;
typedefunsignedint       libnative_KUInt;
typedefunsignedlonglong libnative_KULong;
typedeffloat              libnative_KFloat;
typedefdouble             libnative_KDouble;
typedeffloat/_attribute/_((/_vector_size/_(16))) libnative_KVector128;
typedefvoid*              libnative_KNativePtr;
```

Kotlin uses the `libnative_` prefix for all declarations in the created `libnative_api.h` file. Here's the complete list of type mappings: 

Kotlin definition C type `libnative_KBoolean bool` or `_Bool libnative_KChar unsigned short libnative_KByte signed char` 

996 

C type 

Kotlin definition 

**==> picture [358 x 363] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
libnative_KShort short<br>libnative_KInt int<br>libnative_KLong long long<br>libnative_KUByte unsigned char<br>libnative_KUShort unsigned short<br>libnative_KUInt unsigned int<br>libnative_KULong unsigned long long<br>libnative_KFloat float<br>libnative_KDouble double<br>libnative_KVector128 float __attribute__ ((__vector_size__ (16))<br>libnative_KNativePtr void*<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


The definition section of the `libnative_api.h` file shows how Kotlin primitive types are mapped to C primitive types. The Kotlin/Native compiler generates these entries automatically for every library. The reverse mapping is described in the Mapping primitive data types from C tutorial. 

After the automatically generated type definitions, you'll find the separate type definitions used in your library: 

```
structlibnative_KType;
typedefstructlibnative_KType libnative_KType;
/// Automatically generated type definitions
typedefstruct{
  libnative_KNativePtr pinned;
} libnative_kref_example_Object;
typedefstruct{
  libnative_KNativePtr pinned;
} libnative_kref_example_Clazz;
```

In C, the `typedef struct { ... } TYPE_NAME` syntax declares the structure. 

## See this StackOverflow thread for more explanations of this pattern. 

As you can see from these definitions, Kotlin types are mapped using the same pattern: `Object` is mapped to `libnative_kref_example_Object` , and `Clazz` is mapped to `libnative_kref_example_Clazz` . All structs 

997 

contain nothing but the `pinned` field with a pointer. The field type `libnative_KNativePtr` is defined as `void*` earlier in the file. 

Since C doesn't support namespaces, the Kotlin/Native compiler generates long names to avoid any possible clashes with other symbols in the existing native project. 

## **Service runtime functions** 

The `libnative_ExportedSymbols` structure defines all the functions provided by Kotlin/Native and your library. It uses nested anonymous structures heavily to mimic packages. The `libnative_` prefix comes from the library name. 

`libnative_ExportedSymbols` includes several helper functions in the header file: 

```
typedefstruct{
/* Service functions. //
void(*DisposeStablePointer)(libnative_KNativePtr ptr);
void(*DisposeString)(constchar* string);
```

These functions deal with Kotlin/Native objects. `DisposeStablePointer` is called to release a reference to a Kotlin object, and `DisposeString` is called to release a Kotlin string, which has the `char*` type in C. 

The next part of the `libnative_api.h` file consists of structure declarations of runtime functions: 

```
libnative_KBoolean(*IsInstance)(libnative_KNativePtr ref,const libnative_KType* type);
libnative_KBoolean(*IsInstance)(libnative_KNativePtr ref,const libnative_KType* type);
libnative_kref_kotlin_Byte(*createNullableByte)(libnative_KByte);
libnative_KByte(*getNonNullValueOfByte)(libnative_kref_kotlin_Byte);
libnative_kref_kotlin_Short(*createNullableShort)(libnative_KShort);
libnative_KShort(*getNonNullValueOfShort)(libnative_kref_kotlin_Short);
libnative_kref_kotlin_Int(*createNullableInt)(libnative_KInt);
libnative_KInt(*getNonNullValueOfInt)(libnative_kref_kotlin_Int);
libnative_kref_kotlin_Long(*createNullableLong)(libnative_KLong);
libnative_KLong(*getNonNullValueOfLong)(libnative_kref_kotlin_Long);
libnative_kref_kotlin_Float(*createNullableFloat)(libnative_KFloat);
libnative_KFloat(*getNonNullValueOfFloat)(libnative_kref_kotlin_Float);
libnative_kref_kotlin_Double(*createNullableDouble)(libnative_KDouble);
libnative_KDouble(*getNonNullValueOfDouble)(libnative_kref_kotlin_Double);
libnative_kref_kotlin_Char(*createNullableChar)(libnative_KChar);
libnative_KChar(*getNonNullValueOfChar)(libnative_kref_kotlin_Char);
libnative_kref_kotlin_Boolean(*createNullableBoolean)(libnative_KBoolean);
libnative_KBoolean(*getNonNullValueOfBoolean)(libnative_kref_kotlin_Boolean);
libnative_kref_kotlin_Unit(*createNullableUnit)(void);
libnative_kref_kotlin_UByte(*createNullableUByte)(libnative_KUByte);
libnative_KUByte(*getNonNullValueOfUByte)(libnative_kref_kotlin_UByte);
libnative_kref_kotlin_UShort(*createNullableUShort)(libnative_KUShort);
libnative_KUShort(*getNonNullValueOfUShort)(libnative_kref_kotlin_UShort);
libnative_kref_kotlin_UInt(*createNullableUInt)(libnative_KUInt);
libnative_KUInt(*getNonNullValueOfUInt)(libnative_kref_kotlin_UInt);
libnative_kref_kotlin_ULong(*createNullableULong)(libnative_KULong);
libnative_KULong(*getNonNullValueOfULong)(libnative_kref_kotlin_ULong);
```

You can use the `IsInstance` function to check if a Kotlin object (referenced with its `.pinned` pointer) is an instance of a type. The actual set of operations generated depends on actual usages. 

Kotlin/Native has its own garbage collector, but it doesn't manage Kotlin objects accessed from C. - However, Kotlin/Native provides interoperability with Swift/Objective C, and the garbage collector is integrated with Swift/Objective-C ARC. 

998 

## **Your library functions** 

Let's take a look at the separate structure declarations used in your library. The `libnative_kref_example` field mimics the package structure of your Kotlin code with a `libnative_kref.` prefix: 

```
typedefstruct{
/* User functions. //
struct{
struct{
struct{
struct{
          libnative_KType*(*_type)(void);
libnative_kref_example_Object(*_instance)();
constchar*(*get_field)(libnative_kref_example_Object thiz);
} Object;
struct{
          libnative_KType*(*_type)(void);
libnative_kref_example_Clazz(*Clazz)();
libnative_KULong(*memberFunction)(libnative_kref_example_Clazz thiz, libnative_KInt p);
} Clazz;
constchar*(*get_globalString)();
void(*forFloats)(libnative_KFloat f, libnative_KDouble d);
void(*forIntegers)(libnative_KByte b, libnative_KShort s, libnative_KUInt i, libnative_KLong
l);
constchar*(*strings)(constchar* str);
} example;
} root;
} kotlin;
} libnative_ExportedSymbols;
```

The code uses anonymous structure declarations. Here, `struct { ... } foo` declares a field in the outer struct of the anonymous structure type, which has no name. 

Since C doesn't support objects either, function pointers are used to mimic object semantics. A function pointer is declared as `RETURN_TYPE (* FIELD_NAME)(PARAMETERS)` . 

The `libnative_kref_example_Clazz` field represents the `Clazz` from Kotlin. The `libnative_KULong` is accessible with the `memberFunction` field. The only difference is that the `memberFunction` accepts a `thiz` reference as the first parameter. Since C doesn't support objects, the `thiz` pointer is passed explicitly. 

There is a constructor in the `Clazz` field (aka `libnative_kref_example_Clazz_Clazz` ), which acts as the constructor function to create an instance of the `Clazz` . 

The Kotlin `object Object` is accessible as `libnative_kref_example_Object` . The `_instance` function retrieves the only instance of the object. 

Properties are translated into functions. The `get_` and `set_` prefixes name the getter and the setter functions, respectively. For example, the read-only property `globalString` from Kotlin is turned into a `get_globalString` function in C. 

Global functions `forFloats` , `forIntegers` , and `strings` are turned into functions pointers in the `libnative_kref_example` anonymous struct. 

## **Entry point** 

Now you know how the API is created, the initialization of the `libnative_ExportedSymbols` structure is the starting point. Let's then take a look at the final part of the `libnative_api.h` : 

```
extern libnative_ExportedSymbols*libnative_symbols(void);
```

999 

The `libnative_symbols` function allows you to open the gateway from the native code to the Kotlin/Native library. This is the entry point for accessing the library. The library name is used as a prefix for the function name. 

It might be necessary to host the returned `libnative_ExportedSymbols*` pointer per thread. 

## **Use generated headers from C** 

Using the generated headers from C is straightforward. In the library directory, create the `main.c` file with the following code: 

```
#include"libnative_api.h"
#include"stdio.h"
intmain(int argc,char** argv){
// Obtain reference for calling Kotlin/Native functions
  libnative_ExportedSymbols* lib =libnative_symbols();
  lib/>kotlin.root.example.forIntegers(1,2,3,4);
  lib/>kotlin.root.example.forFloats(1.0f,2.0);
// Use C and Kotlin/Native strings
constchar* str ="Hello from Native!";
constchar* response = lib/>kotlin.root.example.strings(str);
printf("in: %s\nout:%s\n", str, response);
  lib/>DisposeString(response);
// Create Kotlin object instance
  libnative_kref_example_Clazz newInstance = lib/>kotlin.root.example.Clazz.Clazz();
long x = lib/>kotlin.root.example.Clazz.memberFunction(newInstance,42);
  lib/>DisposeStablePointer(newInstance.pinned);
printf("DemoClazz returned %ld\n", x);
return0;
}
```

## **Compile and run the project** 

## **On macOS** 

To compile the C code and link it with the dynamic library, navigate to the library directory and run the following command: 

```
clang main.c libnative.dylib
```

The compiler generates an executable called `a.out` . Run it to execute the Kotlin code from the C library. 

## **On Linux** 

To compile the C code and link it with the dynamic library, navigate to the library directory and run the following command: 

```
gcc main.c libnative.so
```

1000 

