Whether to generate external documentation links to JDK's Javadocs. 

The version of JDK Javadocs is determined by the `jdkVersion` option. 

Note: Links are generated when `noJdkLink` is set to `false` . 

Default: `false` 

## includes 

A list of Markdown files that contain module and package documentation 

The contents of specified files are parsed and embedded into documentation as module and package descriptions. 

## classpath 

The classpath for analysis and interactive samples. 

This is useful if some types that come from dependencies are not resolved/picked up automatically. This option accepts both `.jar` and `.klib` files. 

Default: `{project.compileClasspathElements}` 

## samples 

A list of directories or files that contain sample functions which are referenced via @sample KDoc tag. 

## **Source link configuration** 

The `sourceLinks` configuration block allows you to add a `source` link to each signature that leads to the `url` with a specific line number. (The line number is configurable by setting `lineSuffix` ). 

This helps readers to find the source code for each declaration. 

For an example, see the documentation for the `count()` function in `kotlinx.coroutines` . 

```
<plugin>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId>
<artifactId>dokka-maven-plugin//artifactId>
///-  //.  //>
<configuration>
<sourceLinks>
<link>
<path>src//path>
<url>https://github.com/kotlin/dokka/tree/master/src//url>
<lineSuffix>#L//lineSuffix>
//link>
//sourceLinks>
//configuration>
//plugin>
```

## path 

The path to the local source directory. The path must be relative to the root of the current module. 

Note: Only Unix based paths are allowed, Windows-style paths will throw an error. 

## url 

The URL of the source code hosting service that can be accessed by documentation readers, like GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, etc. This URL is used to generate source code links of declarations. 

## lineSuffix 

The suffix used to append source code line number to the URL. This helps readers navigate not only to the file, but to the specific line number of the declaration. 

801 

The number itself is appended to the specified suffix. For example, if this option is set to `#L` and the line number is 10, the resulting URL suffix is `#L10` . 

Suffixes used by popular services: 

- GitHub: `#L` 

- GitLab: `#L` 

- Bitbucket: `#lines-` 

## **External documentation links configuration** 

The `externalDocumentationLinks` block allows the creation of links that lead to the externally hosted documentation of your dependencies. 

For example, if you are using types from `kotlinx.serialization` , by default they are unclickable in your documentation, as if they are unresolved. However, since the API reference documentation for 

`kotlinx.serialization` is built by Dokka and is published on kotlinlang.org, you can configure external documentation links for it. Thus allowing Dokka to generate links for types from the library, making them resolve successfully and clickable. 

By default, external documentation links for Kotlin standard library and JDK are configured. 

```
<plugin>
```

```
<groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId>
```

```
<artifactId>dokka-maven-plugin//artifactId>
```

```
///-  //.  //>
```

```
<configuration>
```

```
<externalDocumentationLinks>
```

```
<link>
```

- `<url>https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.serialization///url>` 

```
<packageListUrl>file:/${project.basedir}/serialization.package.list//packageListUrl>
//link>
```

```
//externalDocumentationLinks>
```

```
//configuration>
//plugin>
```

## url 

The root URL of documentation to link to. It must contain a trailing slash. 

Dokka does its best to automatically find the `package-list` for the given URL, and link declarations together. 

If automatic resolution fails or if you want to use locally cached files instead, consider setting the 

`packageListUrl` option. 

## packageListUrl 

The exact location of a `package-list` . This is an alternative to relying on Dokka automatically resolving it. 

Package lists contain information about the documentation and the project itself, such as module and package names. 

This can also be a locally cached file to avoid network calls. 

## **Package options** 

The `perPackageOptions` configuration block allows setting some options for specific packages matched by `matchingRegex` . 

802 

```
<plugin>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId>
<artifactId>dokka-maven-plugin//artifactId>
///-  //.  //>
<configuration>
<perPackageOptions>
<packageOptions>
<matchingRegex>.*api.*//matchingRegex>
<suppress>false//suppress>
<reportUndocumented>false//reportUndocumented>
<skipDeprecated>false//skipDeprecated>
<documentedVisibilities>
<visibility>PUBLIC//visibility>
<visibility>PRIVATE//visibility>
<visibility>PROTECTED//visibility>
<visibility>INTERNAL//visibility>
<visibility>PACKAGE//visibility>
//documentedVisibilities>
//packageOptions>
//perPackageOptions>
//configuration>
//plugin>
```

## matchingRegex 

The regular expression that is used to match the package. 

Default: `.*` 

## suppress 

Whether this package should be skipped when generating documentation. 

Default: `false` 

## documentedVisibilities 

The set of visibility modifiers that should be documented. 

This can be used if you want to document `protected` / `internal` / `private` declarations within this package, as well as if you want to exclude `public` declarations and only document internal API. 

Default: `PUBLIC` 

## skipDeprecated 

Whether to document declarations annotated with `@Deprecated` . 

This can be set on project/module level. 

Default: `false` 

## reportUndocumented 

Whether to emit warnings about visible undocumented declarations, that is declarations without KDocs after they have been filtered by `documentedVisibilities` and other filters. 

This setting works well with `failOnWarning` . 

Default: `false` 

## **Complete configuration** 

Below you can see all the possible configuration options applied at the same time. 

803 

```
<plugin>
```

```
<groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId>
<artifactId>dokka-maven-plugin//artifactId>
///-  //.  //>
<configuration>
<skip>false//skip>
<moduleName>${project.artifactId}//moduleName>
<outputDir>${project.basedir}/target/documentation//outputDir>
<failOnWarning>false//failOnWarning>
<suppressObviousFunctions>true//suppressObviousFunctions>
<suppressInheritedMembers>false//suppressInheritedMembers>
<offlineMode>false//offlineMode>
<sourceDirectories>
<dir>${project.basedir}/src//dir>
//sourceDirectories>
<documentedVisibilities>
<visibility>PUBLIC//visibility>
<visibility>PRIVATE//visibility>
<visibility>PROTECTED//visibility>
<visibility>INTERNAL//visibility>
<visibility>PACKAGE//visibility>
//documentedVisibilities>
<reportUndocumented>false//reportUndocumented>
<skipDeprecated>false//skipDeprecated>
<skipEmptyPackages>true//skipEmptyPackages>
<suppressedFiles>
<file>/path/to/dir//file>
<file>/path/to/file//file>
//suppressedFiles>
<jdkVersion>8//jdkVersion>
<languageVersion>1.7//languageVersion>
<apiVersion>1.7//apiVersion>
<noStdlibLink>false//noStdlibLink>
<noJdkLink>false//noJdkLink>
<includes>
<include>packages.md//include>
<include>extra.md//include>
//includes>
<classpath>${project.compileClasspathElements}//classpath>
<samples>
<dir>${project.basedir}/samples//dir>
//samples>
<sourceLinks>
<link>
<path>src//path>
<url>https://github.com/kotlin/dokka/tree/master/src//url>
<lineSuffix>#L//lineSuffix>
//link>
//sourceLinks>
<externalDocumentationLinks>
<link>
<url>https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib///url>
<packageListUrl>file:/${project.basedir}/stdlib.package.list//packageListUrl>
//link>
//externalDocumentationLinks>
<perPackageOptions>
<packageOptions>
<matchingRegex>.*api.*//matchingRegex>
<suppress>false//suppress>
<reportUndocumented>false//reportUndocumented>
<skipDeprecated>false//skipDeprecated>
<documentedVisibilities>
<visibility>PUBLIC//visibility>
```

804 

```
<visibility>PRIVATE//visibility>
```

```
<visibility>PROTECTED//visibility>
<visibility>INTERNAL//visibility>
<visibility>PACKAGE//visibility>
//documentedVisibilities>
```

```
//packageOptions>
```

```
//perPackageOptions>
//configuration>
//plugin>
```

## **CLI** 

If for some reason you cannot use Gradle or Maven build tools, Dokka has a command line (CLI) runner for generating documentation. 

In comparison, it has the same, if not more, capabilities as the Gradle plugin for Dokka. Although it is considerably more difficult to set up as there is no autoconfiguration, especially in multiplatform and multi-module environments. 

## **Get started** 

The CLI runner is published to Maven Central as a separate runnable artifact. 

You can find it on Maven Central or download it directly. 

With the `dokka-cli-2.2.0.jar` file saved on your computer, run it with the `-help` option to see all available configuration options and their description: 

```
java -jar dokka-cli-2.2.0.jar -help
```

It also works for some nested options, such as `-sourceSet` : 

```
java -jar dokka-cli-2.2.0.jar -sourceSet -help
```

## **Generate documentation** 

## **Prerequisites** 

Since there is no build tool to manage dependencies, you have to provide dependency `.jar` files yourself. 

Listed below are the dependencies that you need for any output format: 

|**Group**|**Artifact**|**Version**|**Link**|
|---|---|---|---|
|`org.jetbrains.dokka`|`dokka-base`|2.2.0|download|
|`org.jetbrains.dokka`|`analysis-kotlin-descriptors`|2.2.0|download|



805 

Below are the additional dependencies that you need for HTML output format: 

|**Group**|**Artifact**|**Version**|**Link**|
|---|---|---|---|
|`org.jetbrains.kotlinx`|`kotlinx-html-jvm`|0.8.0|download|
|`org.freemarker`|`freemarker`|2.3.31|download|



## **Run with command line options** 

You can pass command line options to configure the CLI runner. 

At the very least you need to provide the following options: 

- `-pluginsClasspath` - a list of absolute/relative paths to downloaded dependencies, separated by semi- 

- colons `;` 

- `-sourceSet` - an absolute path to code sources to generate documentation for 

- `-outputDir` - an absolute/relative path of the documentation output directory 

```
java -jar dokka-cli-2.2.0.jar \
     -pluginsClasspath "./dokka-base-2.2.0.jar;./analysis-kotlin-descriptors-2.2.0.jar;./kotlinx-html-
jvm-0.8.0.jar;./freemarker-2.3.31.jar"\
     -sourceSet "-src /home/myCoolProject/src/main/kotlin"\
     -outputDir "./dokka/html"
```

Executing the given example generates documentation in HTML output format. 

See Command line options for more configuration details. 

## **Run with JSON configuration** 

It's possible to configure the CLI runner with JSON. In this case, you need to provide an absolute/relative path to the JSON configuration file as the first and only argument. All other configuration options are parsed from it. 

```
java -jar dokka-cli-2.2.0.jar dokka-configuration.json
```

At the very least, you need the following JSON configuration file: 

806 

```
{
  "outputDir": "./dokka/html",
  "sourceSets": [
    {
      "sourceSetID": {
        "scopeId": "moduleName",
        "sourceSetName": "main"
      },
      "sourceRoots": [
        "/home/myCoolProject/src/main/kotlin"
      ]
    }
  ],
  "pluginsClasspath": [
    "./dokka-base-2.2.0.jar",
    "./kotlinx-html-jvm-0.8.0.jar",
    "./analysis-kotlin-descriptors-2.2.0.jar",
    "./freemarker-2.3.31.jar"
  ]
}
```

See JSON configuration options for more details. 

## **Other output formats** 

By default, the `dokka-base` artifact contains the HTML output format only. 

All other output formats are implemented as Dokka plugins. In order to use them, you have to put them on the plugins classpath. 

For example, if you want to generate documentation in the experimental GFM output format, you need to download and pass gfm-plugin's JAR (download) into the `pluginsClasspath` configuration option. 

Via command line options: 

```
java -jar dokka-cli-2.2.0.jar \
     -pluginsClasspath "./dokka-base-2.2.0.jar;//.;./gfm-plugin-2.2.0.jar"\
.
```

Via JSON configuration: 

```
{
  //.
  "pluginsClasspath": [
    "./dokka-base-2.2.0.jar",
    "//.",
    "./gfm-plugin-2.2.0.jar"
  ],
  //.
}
```

With the GFM plugin passed to `pluginsClasspath` , the CLI runner generates documentation in the GFM output format. 

For more information, see GFM and Javadoc pages. 

807 

## **Command line options** 

To see the list of all possible command line options and their detailed description, run: 

```
java -jar dokka-cli-2.2.0.jar -help
```

**==> picture [526 x 666] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Short summary:<br>Option Description<br>moduleName Name of the project/module.<br>moduleVersion Documented version.<br>outputDir Output directory path,  ./dokka  by default.<br>sourceSet Configuration for a Dokka source set. Contains nested configuration options.<br>pluginsConfig Configuration for Dokka plugins.<br>uration<br>pluginsClassp List of jars with Dokka plugins and their dependencies. Accepts multiple paths separated by<br>ath semicolons.<br>offlineMode Whether to resolve remote files/links over network.<br>failOnWarning Whether to fail documentation generation if Dokka has emitted a warning or an error.<br>delayTemplate Whether to delay substitution of some elements. Used in incremental builds of multi-module<br>Substitution projects.<br>noSuppressObv Whether to suppress obvious functions such as those inherited from  kotlin.Any  and<br>iousFunctions java.lang.Object .<br>includes Markdown files that contain module and package documentation. Accepts multiple values<br>separated by semicolons.<br>suppressInher Whether to suppress inherited members that aren't explicitly overridden in a given class.<br>itedMembers<br>globalPackage Global list of package configuration options in format  "matchingRegex,-deprecated,-<br>Options privateApi,+warnUndocumented,+suppress;+visibility:PUBLIC;..." . Accepts multiple<br>values separated by semicolons.<br>globalLinks Global external documentation links in format  {url}^{packageListUrl} . Accepts multiple<br>values separated by  ^^ .<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


808 

Option 

Description 

`globalSrcLink` Global mapping between a source directory and a Web service for browsing the code. Accepts multiple paths separated by semicolons. `helpSourceSet` Prints help for the nested `-sourceSet` configuration. `loggingLevel` Logging level, possible values: `DEBUG, PROGRESS, INFO, WARN, ERROR` . `help, h` Usage info. 

## **Source set options** 

To see the list of command line options for the nested `-sourceSet` configuration, run: 

```
java -jar dokka-cli-2.2.0.jar -sourceSet -help
```

Short summary: 

**==> picture [524 x 380] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Option Description<br>sourceSetName Name of the source set.<br>displayName Display name of the source set, used both internally and externally.<br>classpath Classpath for analysis and interactive samples. Accepts multiple paths separated by<br>semicolons.<br>src Source code roots to be analyzed and documented. Accepts multiple paths separated by<br>semicolons.<br>dependentSource Names of the dependent source sets in format  moduleName/sourceSetName . Accepts<br>Sets multiple values separated by semicolons.<br>samples List of directories or files that contain sample functions. Accepts multiple paths separated<br>by semicolons.<br>includes Markdown files that contain module and package documentation. Accepts multiple paths<br>separated by semicolons.<br>documentedVisib Visibilities to be documented. Accepts multiple values separated by semicolons. Possible<br>ilities values:  PUBLIC ,  PRIVATE ,  PROTECTED ,  INTERNAL ,  PACKAGE .<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


`reportUndocumen` Whether to report undocumented declarations. `ted` 

809 

Option 

Description 

`noSkipEmptyPack` Whether to create pages for empty packages. `ages` 

**==> picture [512 x 518] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
skipDeprecated Whether to skip deprecated declarations.<br>jdkVersion Version of JDK to use for linking to JDK Javadocs.<br>languageVersio Language version used for setting up analysis and samples.<br>n<br>apiVersion Kotlin API version used for setting up analysis and samples.<br>noStdlibLink Whether to generate links to the Kotlin standard library.<br>noJdkLink Whether to generate links to JDK Javadocs.<br>suppressedFile Paths to files to be suppressed. Accepts multiple paths separated by semicolons.<br>s<br>suppressAnnotat Annotation fully qualified names (FQNs) to suppress declarations annotated with. Accepts<br>edWith multiple values separated by semicolons.<br>analysisPlatfor Platform used for setting up analysis.<br>m<br>perPackageOptio List of package source set configurations in format  matchingRegexp,-deprecated,-<br>ns privateApi,+warnUndocumented,+suppress;... . Accepts multiple values separated by<br>semicolons.<br>externalDocumen External documentation links in format  {url}^{packageListUrl} . Accepts multiple values<br>tationLinks separated by  ^^ .<br>srcLink Mapping between a source directory and a Web service for browsing the code. Accepts<br>multiple paths separated by semicolons.<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


## **JSON configuration** 

Below are some examples and detailed descriptions for each configuration section. You can also find an example with all configuration options applied at the bottom of the page. 

810 

## **General configuration** 

```
{
  "moduleName": "Dokka Example",
  "moduleVersion": null,
  "outputDir": "./build/dokka/html",
  "failOnWarning": false,
  "suppressObviousFunctions": true,
  "suppressInheritedMembers": false,
  "offlineMode": false,
  "includes": [
    "module.md"
  ],
  "sourceLinks":  [
    { "_comment": "Options are described in a separate section" }
  ],
  "perPackageOptions": [
    { "_comment": "Options are described in a separate section" }
  ],
  "externalDocumentationLinks":  [
    { "_comment": "Options are described in a separate section" }
  ],
  "sourceSets": [
    { "_comment": "Options are described in a separate section" }
  ],
  "pluginsClasspath": [
    "./dokka-base-2.2.0.jar",
    "./kotlinx-html-jvm-0.8.0.jar",
    "./analysis-kotlin-descriptors-2.2.0.jar",
    "./freemarker-2.3.31.jar"
  ]
}
```

## moduleName 

The display name used to refer to the module. It is used for the table of contents, navigation, logging, etc. 

Default: `root` 

## moduleVersion 

The module version. 

Default: empty 

## outputDirectory 

The directory to where documentation is generated, regardless of output format. 

Default: `./dokka` 

## failOnWarning 

Whether to fail documentation generation if Dokka has emitted a warning or an error. The process waits until all errors and warnings have been emitted first. 

This setting works well with `reportUndocumented` 

Default: `false` 

## suppressObviousFunctions 

Whether to suppress obvious functions. 

A function is considered to be obvious if it is: 

- Inherited from `kotlin.Any` , `Kotlin.Enum` , `java.lang.Object` or `java.lang.Enum` , such as `equals` , `hashCode` , `toString` . 

811 

- Synthetic (generated by the compiler) and does not have any documentation, such as `dataClass.componentN` or `dataClass.copy` . 

Default: `true` 

## suppressInheritedMembers 

Whether to suppress inherited members that aren't explicitly overridden in a given class. 

Note: This can suppress functions such as `equals` / `hashCode` / `toString` , but cannot suppress synthetic functions such as `dataClass.componentN` and `dataClass.copy` . Use `suppressObviousFunctions` for that. 

Default: `false` 

## offlineMode 

Whether to resolve remote files/links over your network. 

This includes package-lists used for generating external documentation links. For example, to make classes from the standard library clickable. 

Setting this to `true` can significantly speed up build times in certain cases, but can also worsen documentation quality and user experience. For example, by not resolving class/member links from your dependencies, including the standard library. 

Note: You can cache fetched files locally and provide them to Dokka as local paths. See 

`externalDocumentationLinks` section. 

Default: `false` 

## includes 

A list of Markdown files that contain module and package documentation. 

The contents of specified files are parsed and embedded into documentation as module and package descriptions. 

This can be configured on per-package basis. 

## sourceSets 

Individual and additional configuration of Kotlin source sets. 

For a list of possible options, see source set configuration. 

## sourceLinks 

The global configuration of source links that is applied for all source sets. 

For a list of possible options, see source link configuration. 

## perPackageOptions 

The global configuration of matched packages, regardless of the source set they are in. 

- For a list of possible options, see per package configuration. 

## externalDocumentationLinks 

The global configuration of external documentation links, regardless of the source set they are used in. 

For a list of possible options, see external documentation links configuration. 

## pluginsClasspath 

A list of JAR files with Dokka plugins and their dependencies. 

## **Source set configuration** 

How to configure Kotlin source sets: 

812 

```
{
```

```
  "sourceSets": [
    {
      "displayName": "jvm",
      "sourceSetID": {
        "scopeId": "moduleName",
        "sourceSetName": "main"
      },
      "dependentSourceSets": [
        {
          "scopeId": "dependentSourceSetScopeId",
          "sourceSetName": "dependentSourceSetName"
        }
      ],
      "documentedVisibilities": ["PUBLIC", "PRIVATE", "PROTECTED", "INTERNAL", "PACKAGE"],
      "reportUndocumented": false,
      "skipEmptyPackages": true,
      "skipDeprecated": false,
      "jdkVersion": 8,
      "languageVersion": "1.7",
      "apiVersion": "1.7",
      "noStdlibLink": false,
      "noJdkLink": false,
      "includes": [
        "module.md"
      ],
      "analysisPlatform": "jvm",
      "sourceRoots": [
        "/home/ignat/IdeaProjects/dokka-debug-mvn/src/main/kotlin"
      ],
      "classpath": [
        "libs/kotlin-stdlib-2.4.0.jar",
        "libs/kotlin-stdlib-common-2.4.0.jar"
      ],
      "samples": [
        "samples/basic.kt"
      ],
      "suppressedFiles": [
        "src/main/kotlin/org/jetbrains/dokka/Suppressed.kt"
      ],
      "sourceLinks":  [
        { "_comment": "Options are described in a separate section" }
      ],
      "perPackageOptions": [
        { "_comment": "Options are described in a separate section" }
      ],
      "externalDocumentationLinks":  [
        { "_comment": "Options are described in a separate section" }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## displayName 

The display name used to refer to this source set. 

The name is used both externally (for example, the source set name is visible to documentation readers) and internally (for example, for logging messages of `reportUndocumented` ). 

The platform name can be used if you don't have a better alternative. 

## sourceSetID 

The technical ID of the source set 

813 

## documentedVisibilities 

The set of visibility modifiers that should be documented. 

This can be used if you want to document `protected` / `internal` / `private` declarations, as well as if you want to exclude `public` declarations and only document internal API. 

This can be configured on per-package basis. 

Possible values: 

- `PUBLIC` 

- `PRIVATE` 

- `PROTECTED` 

- `INTERNAL` 

- `PACKAGE` 

Default: `PUBLIC` 

## reportUndocumented 

Whether to emit warnings about visible undocumented declarations, that is declarations without KDocs after they have been filtered by `documentedVisibilities` and other filters. 

This setting works well with `failOnWarning` . 

This can be configured on per-package basis. 

Default: `false` 

## skipEmptyPackages 

Whether to skip packages that contain no visible declarations after various filters have been applied. 

For example, if `skipDeprecated` is set to `true` and your package contains only deprecated declarations, it is considered to be empty. 

Default for CLI runner is `false` . 

## skipDeprecated 

Whether to document declarations annotated with `@Deprecated` . 

This can be configured on per-package basis. 

Default: `false` 

## jdkVersion 

The JDK version to use when generating external documentation links for Java types. 

For example, if you use `java.util.UUID` in some public declaration signature, and this option is set to `8` , Dokka generates an external documentation link to JDK 8 Javadocs for it. 

## languageVersion 

The Kotlin language version used for setting up analysis and @sample environment. 

## apiVersion 

The Kotlin API version used for setting up analysis and @sample environment. 

## noStdlibLink 

Whether to generate external documentation links that lead to the API reference documentation of Kotlin's standard library. 

Note: Links are generated when `noStdLibLink` is set to `false` . 

814 

Default: `false` 

## noJdkLink 

Whether to generate external documentation links to JDK's Javadocs. 

The version of JDK Javadocs is determined by the `jdkVersion` option. 

Note: Links are generated when `noJdkLink` is set to `false` . 

Default: `false` 

## includes 

A list of Markdown files that contain module and package documentation. 

The contents of the specified files are parsed and embedded into documentation as module and package descriptions. 

## analysisPlatform 

Platform to be used for setting up code analysis and @sample environment. 

Possible values: 

- `jvm` 

- `common` 

- 

   - `js` 

- `native` 

## sourceRoots 

The source code roots to be analyzed and documented. Acceptable inputs are directories and individual `.kt` / `.java` files. 

## classpath 

The classpath for analysis and interactive samples. 

This is useful if some types that come from dependencies are not resolved/picked up automatically. 

This option accepts both `.jar` and `.klib` files. 

## samples 

A list of directories or files that contain sample functions which are referenced via the @sample KDoc tag. 

## suppressedFiles 

The files to be suppressed when generating documentation. 

## suppressAnnotatedWith 

A list of annotation fully qualified names (FQNs) to suppress declarations annotated with. 

Any declaration annotated with one of these annotations is excluded from the generated documentation. 

## sourceLinks 

A set of parameters for source links that is applied only for this source set. 

For a list of possible options, see source link configuration. 

## perPackageOptions 

A set of parameters specific to matched packages within this source set. 

- For a list of possible options, see per package configuration. 

## externalDocumentationLinks 

A set of parameters for external documentation links that is applied only for this source set. 

For a list of possible options, see external documentation links configuration. 

815 

## **Source link configuration** 

The `sourceLinks` configuration block allows you to add a `source` link to each signature that leads to the `remoteUrl` with a specific line number. (The line number is configurable by setting `remoteLineSuffix` ). 

This helps readers to find the source code for each declaration. 

For an example, see the documentation for the `count()` function in `kotlinx.coroutines` . 

You can configure source links for all source sets together at the same time, or individually: 

```
{
  "sourceLinks": [
    {
      "localDirectory": "src/main/kotlin",
      "remoteUrl": "https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/tree/master/src/main/kotlin",
      "remoteLineSuffix": "#L"
    }
  ]
}
```

## localDirectory 

The path to the local source directory. 

## remoteUrl 

The URL of the source code hosting service that can be accessed by documentation readers, like GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, etc. This URL is used to generate source code links of declarations. 

## remoteLineSuffix 

The suffix used to append the source code line number to the URL. This helps readers navigate not only to the file, but to the specific line number of the declaration. 

The number itself is appended to the specified suffix. For example, if this option is set to `#L` and the line number is 10, the resulting URL suffix is `#L10` . 

Suffixes used by popular services: 

- GitHub: `#L` 

- GitLab: `#L` 

- Bitbucket: `#lines-` 

Default: empty (no suffix) 

## **Per-package configuration** 

The `perPackageOptions` configuration block allows setting some options for specific packages matched by `matchingRegex` . 

You can add package configurations for all source sets together at the same time, or individually: 

816 

```
{
```

```
  "perPackageOptions": [
    {
      "matchingRegex": ".*internal.*",
      "suppress": false,
      "skipDeprecated": false,
      "reportUndocumented": false,
      "documentedVisibilities": ["PUBLIC", "PRIVATE", "PROTECTED", "INTERNAL", "PACKAGE"]
    }
  ]
}
```

## matchingRegex 

The regular expression that is used to match the package. 

## suppress 

Whether this package should be skipped when generating documentation. 

Default: `false` 

## skipDeprecated 

Whether to document declarations annotated with `@Deprecated` . 

This can be set on project/module level. 

Default: `false` 

## reportUndocumented 

Whether to emit warnings about visible undocumented declarations, that is declarations without KDocs after they have been filtered by `documentedVisibilities` and other filters. 

This setting works well with `failOnWarning` . 

This can be configured on source set level. 

Default: `false` 

## documentedVisibilities 

The set of visibility modifiers that should be documented. 

This can be used if you want to document `protected` / `internal` / `private` declarations within this package, as well as if you want to exclude `public` declarations and only document internal API. 

Can be configured on source set level. 

Default: `PUBLIC` 

## **External documentation links configuration** 

The `externalDocumentationLinks` block allows the creation of links that lead to the externally hosted documentation of your dependencies. 

For example, if you are using types from `kotlinx.serialization` , by default they are unclickable in your documentation, as if they are unresolved. However, since the API reference documentation for 

`kotlinx.serialization` is built by Dokka and is published on kotlinlang.org, you can configure external documentation links for it. Thus allowing Dokka to generate links for types from the library, making them resolve successfully and clickable. 

You can configure external documentation links for all source sets together at the same time, or individually: 

817 

```
{
```

```
  "externalDocumentationLinks": [
    {
      "url": "https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.serialization/",
      "packageListUrl": "https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.serialization/package-list"
    }
  ]
}
```

## url 

The root URL of documentation to link to. It must contain a trailing slash. 

Dokka does its best to automatically find `package-list` for the given URL, and link declarations together. 

If automatic resolution fails or if you want to use locally cached files instead, consider setting the `packageListUrl` option. 

## packageListUrl 

The exact location of a `package-list` . This is an alternative to relying on Dokka automatically resolving it. 

Package lists contain information about the documentation and the project itself, such as module and package names. 

This can also be a locally cached file to avoid network calls. 

## **Complete configuration** 

Below you can see all possible configuration options applied at the same time. 

818 

```
{
  "moduleName": "Dokka Example",
  "moduleVersion": null,
  "outputDir": "./build/dokka/html",
  "failOnWarning": false,
  "suppressObviousFunctions": true,
  "suppressInheritedMembers": false,
  "offlineMode": false,
  "suppressAnnotatedWith": [
    "com.example.SuppressMe"
  ],
  "sourceLinks": [
    {
      "localDirectory": "src/main/kotlin",
      "remoteUrl": "https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/tree/master/src/main/kotlin",
      "remoteLineSuffix": "#L"
    }
  ],
  "externalDocumentationLinks": [
    {
      "url": "https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/",
      "packageListUrl": "https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/package-list"
    },
    {
      "url": "https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/",
      "packageListUrl": "https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/package-list"
    }
  ],
  "perPackageOptions": [
    {
      "matchingRegex": ".*internal.*",
      "suppress": false,
      "reportUndocumented": false,
      "skipDeprecated": false,
      "documentedVisibilities": ["PUBLIC", "PRIVATE", "PROTECTED", "INTERNAL", "PACKAGE"]
    }
  ],
  "sourceSets": [
    {
      "displayName": "jvm",
      "sourceSetID": {
        "scopeId": "moduleName",
        "sourceSetName": "main"
      },
      "dependentSourceSets": [
        {
          "scopeId": "dependentSourceSetScopeId",
          "sourceSetName": "dependentSourceSetName"
        }
      ],
      "documentedVisibilities": ["PUBLIC", "PRIVATE", "PROTECTED", "INTERNAL", "PACKAGE"],
      "reportUndocumented": false,
      "skipEmptyPackages": true,
      "skipDeprecated": false,
      "jdkVersion": 8,
      "languageVersion": "1.7",
      "apiVersion": "1.7",
      "noStdlibLink": false,
      "noJdkLink": false,
      "includes": [
        "module.md"
      ],
      "analysisPlatform": "jvm",
```

819 

```
      "sourceRoots": [
        "/home/ignat/IdeaProjects/dokka-debug-mvn/src/main/kotlin"
      ],
      "classpath": [
        "libs/kotlin-stdlib-2.4.0.jar",
        "libs/kotlin-stdlib-common-2.4.0.jar"
      ],
      "samples": [
        "samples/basic.kt"
      ],
      "suppressedFiles": [
        "src/main/kotlin/org/jetbrains/dokka/Suppressed.kt"
      ],
      "suppressAnnotatedWith": [
        "com.example.SuppressMe"
      ],
      "sourceLinks": [
        {
          "localDirectory": "src/main/kotlin",
          "remoteUrl": "https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/tree/master/src/main/kotlin",
          "remoteLineSuffix": "#L"
        }
      ],
      "externalDocumentationLinks": [
        {
          "url": "https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/",
          "packageListUrl": "https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/package-list"
        },
        {
          "url": "https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/",
          "packageListUrl": "https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/package-list"
        }
      ],
      "perPackageOptions": [
        {
          "matchingRegex": ".*internal.*",
          "suppress": false,
          "reportUndocumented": false,
          "skipDeprecated": false,
          "documentedVisibilities": ["PUBLIC", "PRIVATE", "PROTECTED", "INTERNAL", "PACKAGE"]
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "pluginsClasspath": [
    "./dokka-base-2.2.0.jar",
    "./kotlinx-html-jvm-0.8.0.jar",
    "./analysis-kotlin-descriptors-2.2.0.jar",
    "./freemarker-2.3.31.jar"
  ],
  "pluginsConfiguration": [
    {
      "fqPluginName": "org.jetbrains.dokka.base.DokkaBase",
      "serializationFormat": "JSON",
      "values": "{\"separateInheritedMembers\":false,\"footerMessage\":\"© 2021 pretty good
Copyright\"}"
    }
  ],
  "includes": [
    "module.md"
  ]
}
```

820 

## **HTML** 

This guide applies to Dokka Gradle plugin (DGP) v2 mode. The DGP v1 mode is no longer supported. To upgrade from v1 to v2 mode, follow the Migration guide. 

HTML is Dokka's default and recommended output format. It provides support for Kotlin Multiplatform, Android, and Java projects. Additionally, you can use the HTML format to document both single and multi-project builds. 

For examples of the HTML output format, check the following docs: 

- kotlinx.coroutines 

- 

## Bitmovin 

- Hexagon 

- Ktor 

- OkHttp 

- Gradle 

## **Generate HTML documentation** 

HTML as an output format is supported by all runners. To generate HTML documentation, follow these steps depending on your build tool or runner: 

- 

- For Gradle, you can run the following tasks: 

- `dokkaGenerate` to generate documentation in all available formats based on the applied plugins. This is the 

- recommended task for most users. When using this task in IntelliJ IDEA, it logs a clickable link to the output. 

- `dokkaGeneratePublicationHtml` to generate documentation only in HTML format. This task exposes the 

- output directory as an `@OutputDirectory` . Use this task when you need to consume the generated files in other Gradle tasks, such as uploading them to a server, moving them into a GitHub Pages directory, or packaging them into a `javadoc.jar` . This task is intentionally not listed in Gradle task groups because it is not meant for everyday use. 

If you're using IntelliJ IDEA, you may see the `dokkaGenerateHtml` Gradle task. This task is simply an alias of `dokkaGeneratePublicationHtml` . Both tasks perform exactly the same operation. 

- For Maven, run the `dokka:dokka` goal. 

- For CLI runner, run with HTML dependencies set. 

   - HTML pages generated by this format need to be hosted on a web server in order to render everything correctly. 

You can use any free static site hosting service, such as GitHub Pages. 

Locally, you can use the built-in Intelli web server. 

821 

## **Configuration** 

HTML format is Dokka's base format. You can configure it using the following options: 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
// build.gradle.kts
```

```
dokka {
    pluginsConfiguration.html{
        customAssets.from("logo.png")
        customStyleSheets.from("styles.css")
        footerMessage.set("(c) Your Company")
        separateInheritedMembers.set(false)
        templatesDir.set(file("dokka/templates"))
        mergeImplicitExpectActualDeclarations.set(false)
}
}
```

## **Gradle Groovy DSL** 

```
// build.gradle
```

```
dokka {
    pluginsConfiguration {
        html {
            customAssets.from("logo.png")
            customStyleSheets.from("styles.css")
            footerMessage.set("(c) Your Company")
            separateInheritedMembers.set(false)
            templatesDir.set(file("dokka/templates"))
            mergeImplicitExpectActualDeclarations.set(false)
}
}
}
```

822 

## **Maven** 

```
<plugin>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId>
<artifactId>dokka-maven-plugin//artifactId>
    //.
<configuration>
<pluginsConfiguration>
///- Fully qualified plugin name //>
<org.jetbrains.dokka.base.DokkaBase>
///- Options by name //>
<customAssets>
<asset>${project.basedir}/my-image.png//asset>
//customAssets>
<customStyleSheets>
<stylesheet>${project.basedir}/my-styles.css//stylesheet>
//customStyleSheets>
<footerMessage>(c) MyOrg 2022 Maven//footerMessage>
<separateInheritedMembers>false//separateInheritedMembers>
<templatesDir>${project.basedir}/dokka/templates//templatesDir>
<mergeImplicitExpectActualDeclarations>false//mergeImplicitExpectActualDeclarations>
//org.jetbrains.dokka.base.DokkaBase>
//pluginsConfiguration>
//configuration>
//plugin>
```

Via command line options: 

## **CLI** 

```
java -jar dokka-cli-2.2.0.jar \
```

```
.
```

```
     -pluginsConfiguration "org.jetbrains.dokka.base.DokkaBase={\"customAssets\": [\"my-image.png\"],
```

```
\"customStyleSheets\": [\"my-styles.css\"], \"footerMessage\": \"(c) 2022 MyOrg\",
\"separateInheritedMembers\": false, \"templatesDir\": \"dokka/templates\",
```

```
\"mergeImplicitExpectActualDeclarations\": false}
"
```

## Via JSON configuration: 

```
{
  "moduleName": "Dokka Example",
  "pluginsConfiguration": [
    {
```

```
      "fqPluginName": "org.jetbrains.dokka.base.DokkaBase",
```

```
      "serializationFormat": "JSON",
```

```
      "values": "{\"customAssets\": [\"my-image.png\"], \"customStyleSheets\": [\"my-styles.css\"],
\"footerMessage\": \"(c) 2022 MyOrg\", \"separateInheritedMembers\": false, \"templatesDir\":
\"dokka/templates\", \"mergeImplicitExpectActualDeclarations\": false}"
    }
```

```
  ]
```

```
}
```

823 

## **Configuration options** 

The table below contains all the possible configuration options and their purpose: 

|**Option**||**Description**|
|---|---|---|
|`customAssets`||List of paths for image assets to be bundled with documentation. The image assets can|
|||have any file extension. For more information, see<br>Customizing assets.|
|`customStyleSheet`||List of paths for<br>`.css` stylesheets to be bundled with documentation and used for|
|`s`||rendering. For more information, see<br>Customizing styles.|
|`templatesDir`||Path to the directory containing custom HTML templates. For more information, see|
|||Templates.|
|`footerMessage`||The text displayed in the footer.|
|`separateInherited`||This is a boolean option. If set to<br>`true` , Dokka renders properties/functions and inherited|
|`Members`||properties/inherited functions separately. This is disabled by default.|
|`mergeImplicitExpe`||This is a boolean option. If set to<br>`true` , Dokka merges declarations that are not declared|
|`ctActualDeclarati`||as<br>expect/actual,but have the same fully qualified name. This can be useful for legacy|
|`ons`||codebases. This is disabled by default.|



For more information about configuring Dokka plugins, see Configuring Dokka plugins. 

## **Customization** 

To help you add your own look and feel to your documentation, the HTML format supports a number of customization options. 

## **Customize styles** 

You can use your own stylesheets by using the `customStyleSheets` configuration option. These are applied to every page. 

It's also possible to override Dokka's default stylesheets by providing files with the same name: 

**Stylesheet name Description** `style.css` Main stylesheet, contains most of the styles used across all pages `logo-styles.css` Header logo styling `prism.css` Styles for PrismJS syntax highlighter 

The source code for all of Dokka's stylesheets is available on GitHub. 

824 

## **Customize assets** 

You can provide your own images to be bundled with documentation by using the `customAssets` configuration option. 

These files are copied to the `<output>/images` directory. 

You can use the `customAssets` property with collections of files ( `FileCollection` ): 

```
customAssets.from("example.png","example2.png")
```

It's possible to override Dokka's images and icons by providing files with the same name. The most useful and relevant one is `logo-icon.svg` , which is the image used in the header. The rest is mostly icons. 

You can find all images used by Dokka on GitHub. 

## **Change the logo** 

To customize the logo, you can begin by providing your own asset for `logo-icon.svg` . 

If you don't like how it looks, or you want to use a `.png` file instead of the default `.svg` file, you can override the `logo-styles.css` stylesheet to customize it. 

For an example of how to do this, see our custom format example project. 

The maximum supported logo dimensions are 120 pixels in width and 36 pixels in height. If you use a larger image, it will be automatically resized. 

## **Modify the footer** 

You can modify text in the footer by using the `footerMessage` configuration option. 

## **Templates** 

Dokka provides the ability to modify FreeMarker templates used for generating documentation pages. 

You can change the header completely, add your own banners/menus/search, load analytics, change body styling, and so on. 

Dokka uses the following templates: 

|**Template**|**Description**||
|---|---|---|
|`base.ftl`|Defines the general design of all pages to be rendered.||
|`includes/header.ftl`|The page header that by default contains the logo,|version, source set selector,|
||light/dark theme switch, and search.||
|`includes/footer.ftl`|The page footer that contains the<br>`footerMessage`|<br>configuration option and|
||copyright.||
|`includes/page_metadata.f`|Metadata used within<br>`<head>` container.||
|`tl`|||



825 

**Template** 

**Description** 

`includes/source_set_sele` The source set selector in the header. `ctor.ftl` 

The base template is `base.ftl` and it includes all the remaining listed templates. You can find the source code for all of Dokka's templates on GitHub. 

You can override any template by using the `templatesDir` configuration option. Dokka searches for the exact template names within the given directory. If it fails to find user-defined templates, it uses the default templates. 

## **Variables** 

The following variables are available inside all templates: 

**==> picture [525 x 360] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Variable Description<br>${pageName} The page name<br>${footerMessa The text which is set by the  footerMessage configuration option<br>ge}<br>${sourceSets} A nullable list of source sets for multi-platform pages. Each item has  name ,  platform , and<br>filter  properties.<br>${projectName The project name. It's available only within the  template_cmd  directive.<br>}<br>${pathToRoot} The path to root from the current page. It's useful for locating assets and is available only<br>within the  template_cmd  directive.<br>Variables  projectName  and  pathToRoot  are available only within the  template_cmd  directive as they require<br>more context, and thus they need to be resolved at later stages:<br><@template_cmd name="projectName"><br><span>${projectName}//span><br>//@template_cmd><br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


## **Directives** 

You can also use the following Dokka-defined directives: 

## **Variable** 

`<@content/>` The main page content. 

**Description** 

826 

**Variable** 

**Description** 

`<@resources/` Resources such as scripts and stylesheets. 

```
>
```

`<@version/>` The subproject version taken from configuration. If the versioning plugin is applied, it is replaced with a version navigator. 

## **Javadoc** 

This guide applies to Dokka Gradle plugin (DGP) v2 mode. The DGP v1 mode is no longer supported. To upgrade from v1 to v2 mode, follow the Migration guide. 

## Dokka's Javadoc output format is a lookalike of Java's Javadoc HTML format. 

It tries to visually mimic HTML pages generated by the Javadoc tool, but it's not a direct implementation or an exact copy. 

**==> picture [524 x 422] intentionally omitted <==**

Screenshot of Javadoc output format 

827 

All Kotlin code and signatures are rendered as seen from Java's perspective. This is achieved with our Kotlin as Java Dokka plugin, which comes bundled and applied by default for this format. 

The Javadoc output format is implemented as a Dokka plugin, and it is maintained by the Dokka team. It is open source, and you can find the source code on GitHub. 

## **Generate Javadoc documentation** 

## Dokka doesn't support the Javadoc format for multi-project builds or Kotlin Multiplatform projects. 

The Gradle plugin for Dokka comes with the Javadoc output format included. You need to apply the corresponding plugin ID in the `plugins {}` block of your project's `build.gradle.kts` file: 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka-javadoc") version "2.2.0"
}
```

Once you applied the plugin, you can run the following tasks: 

- `dokkaGenerate` to generate documentation in all available formats based on the applied plugins. 

- `dokkaGeneratePublicationJavadoc` to generate documentation only in Javadoc format. 

The `javadoc.jar` file can be generated separately. For more information, see Building `javadoc.jar` . 

## **Maven** 

The Maven plugin for Dokka comes with the Javadoc output format built in. You can generate documentation by using the following goals: 

## **Goal Description** 

`dokka:javadoc` Generates documentation in Javadoc format 

`dokka:javadocJar` Generates a `javadoc.jar` file that contains documentation in Javadoc format 

Since the Javadoc output format is a Dokka plugin, you need to download the plugin's JAR file. 

The Javadoc output format has two dependencies that you need to provide as additional JAR files: 

- kotlin-as-java plugin 

- korte-jvm 

## Via command line options: 

## **CLI** 

```
java -jar dokka-cli-2.2.0.jar \
```

```
     -pluginsClasspath "./dokka-base-2.2.0.jar;//.;./javadoc-plugin-2.2.0.jar"\
```

```
.
```

Via JSON configuration: 

828 

```
{
  //.
  "pluginsClasspath": [
    "./dokka-base-2.2.0.jar",
    "//.",
    "./kotlin-as-java-plugin-2.2.0.jar",
    "./korte-jvm-3.3.0.jar",
    "./javadoc-plugin-2.2.0.jar"
  ],
  //.
}
```

For more information, see Other output formats in the CLI runner's documentation. 

## **Dokka plugins** 

This guide applies to Dokka Gradle plugin (DGP) v2 mode. The DGP v1 mode is no longer supported. To upgrade from v1 to v2 mode, follow the Migration guide. 

Dokka was built from the ground up to be easily extensible and highly customizable, which allows the community to implement plugins for missing or very specific features that are not provided out of the box. 

Dokka plugins range anywhere from supporting other programming language sources to exotic output formats. You can add support for your own KDoc tags or annotations, teach Dokka how to render different DSLs that are found in KDoc descriptions, visually redesign Dokka's pages to be seamlessly integrated into your company's website, integrate it with other tools and so much more. 

If you want to learn how to create Dokka plugins, see Developer guides. 

## **Apply Dokka plugins** 

Dokka plugins are published as separate artifacts, so to apply a Dokka plugin, you only need to add it as a dependency. From there, the plugin extends Dokka by itself – no further action is needed. 

Plugins that use the same extension points or work in a similar way can interfere with each other. This may lead to visual bugs, general undefined behavior or even failed builds. However, it should not lead to concurrency issues since Dokka does not expose any mutable data structures or objects. 

If you notice problems like this, it's a good idea to check which plugins are applied and what they do. 

Let's have a look at how you can apply the mathjax plugin to your project: 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
plugins {
id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "2.2.0"
}
dependencies {
dokkaPlugin("org.jetbrains.dokka:mathjax-plugin")
}
```

829 

- Built-in plugins (like HTML and Javadoc) are always applied automatically. You only configure them and do not need to declare dependencies on them. 

- When documenting multi-module projects (multi-project builds), you need to share Dokka configuration and plugins across subprojects. 

**Gradle Groovy DSL** `plugins { id` **`'org.jetbrains.dokka'`** `version` **`'2.2.0'`** `} dependencies { dokkaPlugin` **`'org.jetbrains.dokka:mathjax-plugin'`** `}` 

**==> picture [525 x 31] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
When documenting multi-project builds, you need to share Dokka configuration across subprojects.<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**==> picture [525 x 224] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Maven<br><plugin><br><groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId><br><artifactId>dokka-maven-plugin//artifactId><br>    //.<br><configuration><br><dokkaPlugins><br><plugin><br><groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId><br><artifactId>mathjax-plugin//artifactId><br><version>2.2.0//version><br>//plugin><br>//dokkaPlugins><br>//configuration><br>//plugin><br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


If you are using the CLI runner with command line options, Dokka plugins should be passed as `.jar` files to `-pluginsClasspath` : 

## **CLI** 

```
java -jar dokka-cli-2.2.0.jar \
```

```
     -pluginsClasspath "./dokka-base-2.2.0.jar;//.;./mathjax-plugin-2.2.0.jar"\
```

```
.
```

If you are using JSON configuration, Dokka plugins should be specified under `pluginsClasspath` . 

830 

```
{
  //.
  "pluginsClasspath": [
    "./dokka-base-2.2.0.jar",
    "//.",
    "./mathjax-plugin-2.2.0.jar"
  ],
  //.
}
```

## **Configure Dokka plugins** 

Dokka plugins can also have configuration options of their own. To see which options are available, consult the documentation of the plugins you are using. 

Let's have a look at how you can configure the built-in HTML plugin by adding a custom image to the assets ( `customAssets` option), custom style sheets ( `customStyleSheets` option), and a modified footer message ( `footerMessage` option): 

To configure Dokka plugins in a type-safe way, use the `dokka.pluginsConfiguration {}` block: 

## **Gradle Kotlin DSL** 

```
dokka {
    pluginsConfiguration.html{
        customAssets.from("logo.png")
        customStyleSheets.from("styles.css")
        footerMessage.set("(c) Your Company")
}
}
```

For an example of Dokka plugins configuration, see the Dokka's versioning plugin. 

Dokka allows you to extend its functionality and modify the documentation generation process by configuring custom plugins. 

## **Gradle Groovy DSL** 

```
dokka {
    pluginsConfiguration {
        html {
            customAssets.from("logo.png")
            customStyleSheets.from("styles.css")
            footerMessage.set("(c) Your Company")
}
}
}
```

831 

## **Maven** 

```
<plugin>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.dokka//groupId>
<artifactId>dokka-maven-plugin//artifactId>
    //.
<configuration>
<pluginsConfiguration>
///- Fully qualified plugin name //>
<org.jetbrains.dokka.base.DokkaBase>
///- Options by name //>
<customAssets>
<asset>${project.basedir}/my-image.png//asset>
//customAssets>
<customStyleSheets>
<stylesheet>${project.basedir}/my-styles.css//stylesheet>
//customStyleSheets>
<footerMessage>(c) MyOrg 2022 Maven//footerMessage>
//org.jetbrains.dokka.base.DokkaBase>
//pluginsConfiguration>
//configuration>
//plugin>
```

If you are using the CLI runner with command line options, use the `-pluginsConfiguration` option that accepts JSON configuration in the form of `fullyQualifiedPluginName=json` . 

If you need to configure multiple plugins, you can pass multiple values separated by `^^` . 

## **CLI** 

```
java -jar dokka-cli-2.2.0.jar \
```

```
.
     -pluginsConfiguration "org.jetbrains.dokka.base.DokkaBase={\"customAssets\": [\"my-image.png\"],
\"customStyleSheets\": [\"my-styles.css\"], \"footerMessage\": \"(c) 2022 MyOrg CLI\"}"
```

If you are using JSON configuration, there exists a similar `pluginsConfiguration` array that accepts JSON configuration in `values` . 

```
{
  "moduleName": "Dokka Example",
  "pluginsConfiguration": [
    {
      "fqPluginName": "org.jetbrains.dokka.base.DokkaBase",
      "serializationFormat": "JSON",
      "values": "{\"customAssets\": [\"my-image.png\"], \"customStyleSheets\": [\"my-styles.css\"],
\"footerMessage\": \"(c) 2022 MyOrg\"}"
    }
  ]
}
```

## **Notable plugins** 

Here are some notable Dokka plugins that you might find useful: 

832 

**Name** 

**Description** 

|Android documentation|Improves the documentation experience on Android|
|---|---|
|plugin||
|Versioning plugin|Adds version selector and helps to organize documentation for different versions of|
||your application/library|
|MermaidJS HTML plugin|Renders<br>MermaidJS diagrams and visualizations found in KDocs|
|Mathjax HTML plugin|Pretty prints mathematics found in KDocs|
|Kotlin as Java plugin|Renders Kotlin signatures as seen from Java's perspective|
|GFM plugin|Adds the ability to generate documentation in GitHub Flavoured Markdown format|
|Jekyll plugin|Adds the ability to generate documentation in Jekyll Flavoured Markdown format|



If you are a Dokka plugin author and would like to add your plugin to this list, get in touch with maintainers via Slack or GitHub. 

## **Module documentation** 

Documentation for a subproject as a whole, as well as packages in that subproject, can be provided as separate Markdown files. 

## **File format** 

Inside the Markdown file, the documentation for the subproject as a whole and for individual packages is introduced by the corresponding first-level headings. The text of the heading **must** be **Module** **`<module name>`** for a subproject, and **Package** **`<package qualified name>`** for a package. 

The file doesn't have to contain both subproject and package documentation. You can have files that contain only package or subproject documentation. You can even have a Markdown file per subproject or package. 

Using Markdown syntax, you can add: 

- 

   - Headings up to level 6 

- Emphasis with bold or italic formatting 

- Links 

- Inline code 

- Code blocks 

- Blockquotes 

Here's an example file containing both subproject and package documentation: 

833 

```
# Module kotlin-demo
```

```
This content appears under your subproject name.
```

```
# Package org.jetbrains.kotlin.demo
```

```
This content appears under your package name in the packages list.
It also appears under the first-level heading on your package's page.
```

```
/# Level 2 heading for package org.jetbrains.kotlin.demo
```

```
Content after this heading is also part of documentation for `org.jetbrains.kotlin.demo`
```

```
# Package org.jetbrains.kotlin.demo2
```

```
This content appears under your package name in the packages list.
It also appears under the first-level heading on your package's page.
```

```
/# Level 2 heading for package org.jetbrains.kotlin.demo2
```

```
Content after this heading is also part of documentation for `org.jetbrains.kotlin.demo2`
```

To explore an example project with Gradle, see Dokka gradle example. 

## **Pass files to Dokka** 

To pass these files to Dokka, you need to use the relevant **includes** option for Gradle, Maven, or CLI: 

## **Gradle** 

Use the `includes` option in General configuration. 

## **Maven** 

Use the `includes` option in General configuration. 

## **CLI** 

If you are using command line configuration, use the `includes` option in Source set options. 

If you are using JSON configuration, use the `includes` option in General configuration. 

## **Run code snippets** 

Kotlin code is typically organized into projects with which you work in an IDE, a text editor, or another tool. However, if you want to quickly see how a function works or find an expression's value, there's no need to create a new project and build it. Check out these three handy ways to run Kotlin code instantly in different environments: 

- Scratch files in the IDE. 

- Kotlin Notebook in the IDE. 

- Kotlin Playground in the browser. 

- ki shell in the command line. 

834 

## **IDE: scratches** 

IntelliJ IDEA and Android Studio support Kotlin scratch files. 

Scratch files (or just scratches) let you create code drafts in the same IDE window as your project and run them on the fly. Scratches are not tied to projects; you can access and run all your scratches from any IntelliJ IDEA window on your OS. 

To create a Kotlin scratch, click **File** | **New** | **Scratch File** and select the **Kotlin** type. 

Syntax highlighting, auto-completion, and other IntelliJ IDEA code editing features are supported in scratches. There's no need to declare the `main()` function – all the code you write is executed as if it were in the body of `main()` . 

Once you have finished writing your code in a scratch, click **Run** . The execution results will appear in the lines opposite your code. 

**==> picture [524 x 184] intentionally omitted <==**

Run scratch 

## **Interactive mode** 

The IDE can run code from scratches automatically. To get execution results as soon as you stop typing, switch on **Interactive mode** . 

**==> picture [524 x 111] intentionally omitted <==**

Scratch interactive mode 

## **Use modules** 

You can use classes or functions from a Kotlin project in your scratches. 

835 

To use classes or functions from a project in a scratch, import them into the scratch file with the `import` statement, as usual. Then write your code and run it with the appropriate module selected in the **Use classpath of module** list. 

Scratches and use the compiled versions of connected modules. So, if you modify a module's source files, the changes will propagate to scratches when you rebuild the module. To rebuild the module automatically before each run of a scratch, select **Make module before Run** . 

**==> picture [524 x 111] intentionally omitted <==**

Scratch select module 

## **IDE: Kotlin Notebook** 

Kotlin Notebook is an interactive editor that lets you mix code, outputs, visuals, and Markdown in one document. You can use notebooks to write and run code in sections known as code cells and see the results instantly. 

836 

**==> picture [524 x 420] intentionally omitted <==**

Kotlin Notebook is bundled and enabled in IntelliJ IDEA by default. 

To start working with Kotlin Notebook, see Get started with Kotlin Notebook. 

## **Scratch Kotlin Notebook** 

You can also create a Kotlin Notebook as a scratch file, which allows you to test small pieces of code without creating a new project or modifying an existing one. Scratch notebooks are accessible from any project. 

Learn how to create a scratch Kotlin Notebook. 

## **Browser: Kotlin Playground** 

Kotlin Playground is an online application for writing, running, and sharing Kotlin code in your browser. 

## **Write and edit code** 

In the Playground's editor area, you can write code just as you would in a source file: 

- Add your own classes, functions, and top-level declarations in an arbitrary order. 

- Write the executable part in the body of the `main()` function. 

837 

As in typical Kotlin projects, the `main()` function in the Playground can have the `args` parameter or no parameters at all. To pass program arguments upon execution, write them in the **Program arguments** field. 

**==> picture [524 x 332] intentionally omitted <==**

Playground: code completion 

The Playground highlights the code and shows code completion options as you type. It automatically imports declarations from the standard library and `kotlinx.coroutines` . 

## **Choose execution environment** 

The Playground provides ways to customize the execution environment: 

- Multiple Kotlin versions, including available previews of future versions. 

- Multiple backends to run the code in: JVM, JS (legacy or IR compiler, or Canvas), or JUnit. 

838 

**==> picture [524 x 197] intentionally omitted <==**

Playground: environment setup 

For JS backends, you can also see the generated JS code. 

**==> picture [524 x 161] intentionally omitted <==**

Playground: generated JS 

## **Share code online** 

Use the Playground to share your code with others – click **Copy link** and send it to anyone you want to show the code to. 

You can also embed code snippets from the Playground into other websites and even make them runnable. Click **Share code** to embed your sample into any web page or into a Medium article. 

839 

**==> picture [524 x 331] intentionally omitted <==**

Playground: share code 

## **Command line: ki shell** 

The ki shell (Kotlin Interactive Shell) is a command-line utility for running Kotlin code in the terminal. It's available for Linux, macOS, and Windows. 

The ki shell provides basic code evaluation capabilities, along with advanced features such as: 

- code completion 

- type checks 

- external dependencies 

- 

   - paste mode for code snippets 

- scripting support 

See the ki shell GitHub repository for more details. 

## **Install and run ki shell** 

To install the ki shell, download the latest version of it from GitHub and unzip it in the directory of your choice. 

On macOS, you can also install the ki shell with Homebrew by running the following command: 

## `brew install ki` 

To start the ki shell, run `bin/ki.sh` on Linux and macOS (or just `ki` if the ki shell was installed with Homebrew) or `bin\ki.bat` on Windows. 

840 

Once the shell is running, you can immediately start writing Kotlin code in your terminal. Type `:help` (or `:h` ) to see the commands that are available in the ki shell. 

## **Code completion and highlighting** 

The ki shell shows code completion options when you press **Tab** . It also provides syntax highlighting as you type. You can disable this feature by entering `:syntax off` . 

**==> picture [524 x 90] intentionally omitted <==**

ki shell highlighting and completion 

When you press **Enter** , the ki shell evaluates the entered line and prints the result. Expression values are printed as variables with auto-generated names like `res*` . You can later use such variables in the code you run. If the construct entered is incomplete (for example, an `if` with a condition but without the body), the shell prints three dots and expects the remaining part. 

**==> picture [524 x 98] intentionally omitted <==**

ki shell results 

## **Check an expression's type** 

For complex expressions or APIs that you don't know well, the ki shell provides the `:type` (or `:t` ) command, which shows the type of an expression: 

**==> picture [524 x 61] intentionally omitted <==**

ki shell type 

## **Load code** 

If the code you need is stored somewhere else, there are two ways to load it and use it in the ki shell: 

- Load a source file with the `:load` (or `:l` ) command. 

- Copy and paste the code snippet in paste mode with the `:paste` (or `:p` ) command. 

841 

**==> picture [524 x 113] intentionally omitted <==**

ki shell load file 

The `ls` command shows available symbols (variables and functions). 

## **Add external dependencies** 

Along with the standard library, the ki shell also supports external dependencies. This lets you try out third-party libraries in it without creating a whole project. 

To add a third-party library in the ki shell, use the `:dependsOn` command. By default, the ki shell works with Maven Central, but you can use other repositories if you connect them using the `:repository` command: 

**==> picture [524 x 199] intentionally omitted <==**

ki shell external dependency 

## **Document Kotlin code: KDoc** 

The language used to document Kotlin code (the equivalent of Java's Javadoc) is called **KDoc** . In essence, KDoc combines Javadoc's syntax for block tags (extended to support Kotlin's specific constructs) and Markdown for inline markup. 

Kotlin's documentation engine: Dokka, understands KDoc and can be used to generate documentation in various formats. For more information, read our Dokka documentation. 

842 

## **KDoc syntax** 

Just like with Javadoc, KDoc comments start with `/**` and end with `*/` . Every line of the comment may begin with an asterisk, which is not considered part of the contents of the comment. 

By convention, the first paragraph of the documentation text (the block of text until the first blank line) is the summary description of the element, and the following text is the detailed description. 

Every block tag begins on a new line and starts with the `@` character. 

Here's an example of a class documented using KDoc: 

```
/**
 * A group of *members*.
 *
 * This class has no useful logic; it's just a documentation example.
 *
 * @param T the type of a member in this group.
 * @property name the name of this group.
 * @constructor Creates an empty group.
 //
class Group<T>(val name: String){
/**
     * Adds a [member] to this group.
     * @return the new size of the group.
     //
funadd(member: T): Int {.}
}
```

## **Block tags** 

KDoc currently supports the following block tags: 

## **@param name** 

Documents a value parameter of a function or a type parameter of a class, property or function. To better separate the parameter name from the description, if you prefer, you can enclose the name of the parameter in brackets. The following two syntaxes are therefore equivalent: 

```
@param name description.
@param[name] description.
```

## **@return** 

Documents the return value of a function. 

## **@constructor** 

Documents the primary constructor of a class. 

## **@receiver** 

Documents the receiver of an extension function. 

843 

## **@property name** 

Documents the property of a class which has the specified name. This tag can be used for documenting properties declared in the primary constructor, where putting a doc comment directly before the property definition would be awkward. 

## **@throws class, @exception class** 

Documents an exception which can be thrown by a method. Since Kotlin does not have checked exceptions, there is also no expectation that all possible exceptions are documented, but you can still use this tag when it provides useful information for users of the class. 

## **@sample identifier** 

Embeds the body of the function with the specified qualified name into the documentation for the current element, in order to show an example of how the element could be used. 

## **@see identifier** 

Adds a link to the specified class or method to the **See also** block of the documentation. 

## **@author** 

Specifies the author of the element being documented. 

## **@since** 

Specifies the version of the software in which the element being documented was introduced. 

## **@suppress** 

Excludes the element from the generated documentation. Can be used for elements which are not part of the official API of a module but still have to be visible externally. 

KDoc does not support the `@deprecated` tag. Instead, please use the `@Deprecated` annotation. 

## **Inline markup** 

For inline markup, KDoc uses the regular Markdown syntax, extended to support a shorthand syntax for linking to other elements in the code. 

## **Links to elements** 

To link to another element (class, method, property, or parameter), simply put its name in square brackets: 

```
Use the method [foo] for this purpose.
```

If you want to specify a custom label for the link, add it in another set of square brackets before the element link: 

```
Use [this method][foo] for this purpose.
```

844 

You can also use qualified names in the element links. Note that, unlike Javadoc, qualified names always use the dot character to separate the components, even before a method name: 

```
Use [kotlin.reflect.KClass.properties] to enumerate the properties of the class.
```

Names in element links are resolved using the same rules as if the name was used inside the element being documented. In particular, this means that if you have imported a name into the current file, you don't need to fully qualify it when you use it in a KDoc comment. 

Note that KDoc does not have any syntax for resolving overloaded members in links. Since Kotlin's documentation generation tool puts the documentation for all overloads of a function on the same page, identifying a specific overloaded function is not required for the link to work. 

## **External links** 

To add an external link, use the typical Markdown syntax: 

```
For more information about KDoc syntax, see [KDoc](<example-URL>).
```

## **What's next?** 

Learn how to use Kotlin's documentation generation tool: Dokka. 

## **Kotlin and OSGi** 

To enable Kotlin OSGi support in your Kotlin project, include `kotlin-osgi-bundle` instead of the regular Kotlin libraries. It is recommended to remove `kotlin-runtime` , `kotlin-stdlib` and `kotlin-reflect` dependencies as `kotlin-osgi-bundle` already contains all of them. You also should pay attention in case when external Kotlin libraries are included. Most regular Kotlin dependencies are not OSGi-ready, so you shouldn't use them and should remove them from your project. 

## **Maven** 

To include the Kotlin OSGi bundle to a Maven project: 

```
<dependencies>
<dependency>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin//groupId>
<artifactId>kotlin-osgi-bundle//artifactId>
<version>${kotlin.version}//version>
//dependency>
//dependencies>
```

To exclude the standard library from external libraries (notice that "star exclusion" works in Maven 3 only): 

845 

```
<dependency>
<groupId>some.group.id//groupId>
<artifactId>some.library//artifactId>
<version>some.library.version//version>
```

```
<exclusions>
<exclusion>
<groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin//groupId>
<artifactId>*//artifactId>
//exclusion>
//exclusions>
//dependency>
```

## **Gradle** 

To include `kotlin-osgi-bundle` to a Gradle project: 

## **Kotlin** 

```
dependencies {
implementation(kotlin("osgi-bundle"))
}
```

## **Groovy** 

## `dependencies {` 

```
    implementation "org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-osgi-bundle:2.4.0"
}
```

To exclude default Kotlin libraries that comes as transitive dependencies you can use the following approach: 

## **Kotlin** 

## `dependencies {` 

```
implementation("some.group.id:some.library:someversion"){
exclude(group ="org.jetbrains.kotlin")
}
}
```

## **Groovy** 

## `dependencies {` 

```
implementation('some.group.id:some.library:someversion'){
        exclude group:'org.jetbrains.kotlin'
}
}
```

846 

## **FAQ** 

## **Why not just add required manifest options to all Kotlin libraries** 

Even though it is the most preferred way to provide OSGi support, unfortunately it couldn't be done for now due to so called "package split" issue that couldn't be easily eliminated and such a big change is not planned for now. There is `Require-Bundle` feature but it is not the best option too and not recommended to use. So it was decided to make a separate artifact for OSGi. 

## **Kotlin and continuous integration with TeamCity** 

On this page, you'll learn how to set up TeamCity to build your Kotlin project. For more information and basics of TeamCity please check the Documentation page which contains information about installation, basic configuration, etc. 

Kotlin works with different build tools, so if you're using a standard tool such as Maven or Gradle, the process for setting up a Kotlin project is no different to any other language or library that integrates with these tools. Where there are some minor requirements and differences is when using the internal build system of IntelliJ IDEA, which is also supported on TeamCity. 

## **Gradle and Maven** 

If using Maven or Gradle, the setup process is straightforward. All that is needed is to define the Build Step. For example, if using Gradle, simply define the required parameters such as the Step Name and Gradle tasks that need executing for the Runner Type. 

**==> picture [524 x 265] intentionally omitted <==**

## Gradle Build Step 

Since all the dependencies required for Kotlin are defined in the Gradle file, nothing else needs to be configured specifically for Kotlin to run correctly. 

If using Maven, the same configuration applies. The only difference being that the Runner Type would be Maven. 

847 

## **IntelliJ IDEA Build System** 

If using IntelliJ IDEA build system with TeamCity, make sure that the version of Kotlin being used by IntelliJ IDEA is the same as the one that TeamCity runs. You may need to download the specific version of the Kotlin plugin and install it on TeamCity. 

Fortunately, there is a meta-runner already available that takes care of most of the manual work. If not familiar with the concept of TeamCity meta-runners, check the documentation. They are very easy and powerful way to introduce custom Runners without the need to write plugins. 

## **Download and install the meta-runner** 

The meta-runner for Kotlin is available on GitHub. Download that meta-runner and import it from the TeamCity user interface 

**==> picture [524 x 237] intentionally omitted <==**

Meta-runner 

## **Setup Kotlin compiler fetching step** 

Basically this step is limited to defining the Step Name and the version of Kotlin you need. Tags can be used. 

848 

**==> picture [524 x 208] intentionally omitted <==**

## Setup Kotlin Compiler 

The runner will set the value for the property `system.path.macro.KOTLIN.BUNDLED` to the correct one based on the path settings from the IntelliJ IDEA project. However, this value needs to be defined in TeamCity (and can be set to any value). Therefore, you need to define it as a system variable. 

## **Setup Kotlin compilation step** 

The final step is to define the actual compilation of the project, which uses the standard IntelliJ IDEA Runner Type. 

**==> picture [524 x 198] intentionally omitted <==**

## IntelliJ IDEA Runner 

With that, our project should now build and produce the corresponding artifacts. 

## **Other CI servers** 

If using a continuous integration tool different to TeamCity, as long as it supports any of the build tools, or calling command line tools, compiling Kotlin and automating things as part of a CI process should be possible. 

849 

## **Comparison to Java** 

## **Some Java issues addressed in Kotlin** 

Kotlin fixes a series of issues that Java suffers from: 

- Null references are controlled by the type system. 

- 

## No raw types 

- 

   - Arrays in Kotlin are invariant 

- 

   - Kotlin has proper function types, as opposed to Java's SAM-conversions 

- Use-site variance without wildcards 

- Kotlin does not have checked exceptions 

- Separate interfaces for read-only and mutable collections 

## **What Java has that Kotlin does not** 

- 

## Checked exceptions 

- Primitive types that are not classes. The byte-code uses primitives where possible, but they are not explicitly available. 

- 

   - Static members are replaced with companion objects, top-level functions, extension functions, or @JvmStatic. 

- 

   - Wildcard-types are replaced with declaration-site variance and type projections. 

- 

   - Ternary-operator `a ? b : c` is replaced with if expression. 

- 

## Records 

- 

## package-private visibility modifier 

- Kotlin doesn't have pattern matching, but smart casts in Kotlin provide similar functionality to pattern Matching in Java. 

Learn more in this video on the official Kotlin by JetBrains channel. 

## **What Kotlin has that Java does not** 

- Lambda expressions + Inline functions = performant custom control structures 

- Extension functions 

- Null-safety 

- String templates 

- Properties 

- Primary constructors 

- First-class delegation 

850 

- Type inference for variable and property types ( **Java 10** : Local-Variable Type Inference) 

- 

## Singletons 

- 

   - Declaration-site variance & Type projections 

- 

   - Range expressions 

- 

   - Operator overloading 

- 

   - Companion objects 

- 

   - Data classes 

- 

## Coroutines 

- Top-level functions 

- Parameters with default values 

- Named parameters 

- Infix functions 

- Expect and actual declarations 

- Explicit API mode and better control of API surface 

Java doesn't have smart casts, but pattern matching provides similar functionality to smart casts in Kotlin. 

Learn more in this video on the official Kotlin by JetBrains channel. 

## **What's next?** 

Learn how to: 

- Perform typical tasks with strings in Java and Kotlin. 

- 

   - Perform typical tasks with collections in Java and Kotlin. 

- 

- Handle nullability in Java and Kotlin. 

## **Calling Java from Kotlin** 

Kotlin is designed with Java interoperability in mind. Existing Java code can be called from Kotlin in a natural way, and Kotlin code can be used from Java rather smoothly as well. In this section, we describe some details about calling Java code from Kotlin. 

Pretty much all Java code can be used without any issues: 

851 

```
import java.util.*
fundemo(source: List<Int>){
val list = ArrayList<Int>()
// 'for'-loops work for Java collections:
for(item in source){
        list.add(item)
}
// Operator conventions work as well:
for(i in0/.source.size -1){
        list[i]= source[i]// get and set are called
}
}
```

## **Getters and setters** 

Methods that follow the Java conventions for getters and setters (no-argument methods with names starting with 

`get` and single-argument methods with names starting with `set` ) are represented as properties in Kotlin. Such properties are also called synthetic properties. `Boolean` accessor methods (where the name of the getter starts with `is` and the name of the setter starts with `set` ) are represented as properties which have the same name as the getter method. 

```
import java.util.Calendar
funcalendarDemo(){
val calendar = Calendar.getInstance()
if(calendar.firstDayOfWeek /= Calendar.SUNDAY){// call getFirstDayOfWeek()
        calendar.firstDayOfWeek = Calendar.MONDAY // call setFirstDayOfWeek()
}
if(!calendar.isLenient){// call isLenient()
        calendar.isLenient =true// call setLenient()
}
}
```

`calendar.firstDayOfWeek` above is an example of a synthetic property. 

Note that, if the Java class only has a setter, it isn't visible as a property in Kotlin because Kotlin doesn't support set-only properties. 

## **Java synthetic property references** 

This feature is Experimental. It may be dropped or changed at any time. We recommend that you use it only for evaluation purposes. 

Starting from Kotlin 1.8.20, you can create references to Java synthetic properties. Consider the following Java code: 

852 

```
publicclassPerson{
privateString name;
privateint age;
publicPerson(String name,int age){
this.name = name;
this.age = age;
}
publicStringgetName(){
return name;
}
publicintgetAge(){
return age;
}
}
```

Kotlin has always allowed you to write `person.age` , where `age` is a synthetic property. Now, you can also create references to `Person::age` and `person::age` . The same applies for `name` , as well. 

```
val persons =listOf(Person("Jack",11),Person("Sofie",12),Person("Peter",11))
    persons
// Call a reference to Java synthetic property:
.sortedBy(Person/:age)
// Call Java getter via the Kotlin property syntax:
.forEach{ person />println(person.name)}
```

## **How to enable Java synthetic property references** 

To enable this feature, set the `-language-version 2.1` compiler option. In a Gradle project, you can do so by adding the following to your `build.gradle(.kts)` : 

## **Kotlin** 

```
tasks
```

```
.withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask*>()
.configureEach{
        compilerOptions
.languageVersion
.set(
                org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.KOTLIN_2_1
)
}
```

## **Groovy** 

```
tasks
```

```
.withType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask.class)
.configureEach {
        compilerOptions.languageVersion
= org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.KOTLIN_2_1
}
```

853 

Prior to Kotlin 1.9.0, to enable this feature you had to set the `-language-version 1.9` compiler option. 

## **Methods returning void** 

If a Java method returns `void` , it will return `Unit` when called from Kotlin. If by any chance someone uses that return value, it will be assigned at the call site by the Kotlin compiler since the value itself is known in advance (being `Unit` ). 

## **Escaping for Java identifiers that are keywords in Kotlin** 

Some of the Kotlin keywords are valid identifiers in Java: `in` , `object` , `is` , and other. If a Java library uses a Kotlin keyword for a method, you can still call the method escaping it with the backtick (`) character: 

```
foo.`is`(bar)
```

## **Null-safety and platform types** 

Any reference in Java may be `null` , which makes Kotlin's requirements of strict null-safety impractical for objects coming from Java. Types of Java declarations are treated in Kotlin in a specific manner and called platform types. Null-checks are relaxed for such types, so that safety guarantees for them are the same as in Java (see more below). 

Consider the following examples: 

```
val list = ArrayList<String>()// non-null (constructor result)
list.add("Item")
val size = list.size // non-null (primitive int)
val item = list[0]// platform type inferred (ordinary Java object)
```

When you call methods on variables of platform types, Kotlin does not issue nullability errors at compile time, but the call may fail at runtime, because of a null-pointer exception or an assertion that Kotlin generates to prevent nulls from propagating: 

```
item.substring(1)// allowed, throws an exception if item /= null
```

Platform types are non-denotable, meaning that you can't write them down explicitly in the language. When a platform value is assigned to a Kotlin variable, you can rely on the type inference (the variable will have an inferred platform type then, as `item` has in the example above), or you can choose the type you expect (both nullable and non-nullable types are allowed): 

```
val nullable: String?= item // allowed, always works
val notNull: String = item // allowed, may fail at runtime
```

If you choose a non-nullable type, the compiler will emit an assertion upon assignment. This prevents Kotlin's nonnullable variables from holding nulls. Assertions are also emitted when you pass platform values to Kotlin functions expecting non-null values and in other cases. Overall, the compiler does its best to prevent nulls from propagating far through the program although sometimes this is impossible to eliminate entirely, because of generics. 

854 

## **Notation for platform types** 

As mentioned above, platform types can't be mentioned explicitly in the program, so there's no syntax for them in the language. Nevertheless, the compiler and IDE need to display them sometimes (for example, in error messages or parameter info), so there is a mnemonic notation for them: 

- 

   - `T!` means " `T` or `T?` ", 

- 

   - `(Mutable)Collection<T>!` means "Java collection of `T` may be mutable or not, may be nullable or not", 

- 

- `Array<(out) T>!` means "Java array of `T` (or a subtype of `T` ), nullable or not" 

## **Nullability annotations** 

Java types that have nullability annotations are represented not as platform types, but as actual nullable or nonnullable Kotlin types. The compiler supports several flavors of nullability annotations, including: 

- JetBrains ( `@Nullable` and `@NotNull` from the `org.jetbrains.annotations` package) 

- 

   - JSpecify ( `org.jspecify.annotations` ) 

- 

   - Android ( `com.android.annotations` and `android.support.annotations` ) 

- 

   - 

   - JSR 305 ( `javax.annotation` ) 

- 

   - FindBugs ( `edu.umd.cs.findbugs.annotations` ) 

- 

   - Eclipse ( `org.eclipse.jdt.annotation` ) 

- 

   - Lombok ( `lombok.NonNull` ) 

- 

   - RxJava 3 ( `io.reactivex.rxjava3.annotations` ) 

- 

- Vert.x ( `io.vertx.codegen.annotations` ) 

You can instruct the compiler to report nullability mismatches for specific nullability annotations with the following compiler option: 

## `-Xnullability-annotations=@<package-name :<report-level>` 

Specify the package name for the fully qualified nullability annotations and one of these report levels: 

- `ignore` to ignore nullability mismatches 

- `warn` to report warnings 

- `strict` to report errors. 

JSpecify is the only supported flavor that uses `strict` report level by default. Use it to report errors on nullability annotations without additional configuration. 

See the full list of supported nullability annotations in the Kotlin compiler source code. 

## **Mutability annotations** 

You can annotate a Java declaration with a mutability annotation to specify whether a returned collection is readonly or mutable in Kotlin. If you assign the value to a collection type with different mutability, the compiler reports a type mismatch. The diagnostic severity depends on the specific mutability annotation. 

855 

The compiler supports several mutability annotations, including: 

- 

   - `kotlin.annotations.jvm.ReadOnly` 

- 

   - `kotlin.annotations.jvm.Mutable` 

- 

   - `org.jetbrains.annotations.Unmodifiable` 

- 

- `org.jetbrains.annotations.UnmodifiableView` 

See the full list of supported mutability annotations in the Kotlin compiler source code. 

## **Annotating type arguments and type parameters** 

You can annotate the type arguments and type parameters of generic types to provide nullability information for them as well. 

All examples in the section use JetBrains nullability annotations from the `org.jetbrains.annotations` package. 

## **Type arguments** 

Consider these annotations on a Java declaration: 

## **`@NotNull`** 

```
Set<@NotNullString>toSet(@NotNullCollection<@NotNullString> elements){//.}
```

They result in the following signature in Kotlin: 

```
funtoSet(elements:(Mutable)Collection<String>):(Mutable)Set<String>{.}
```

When the `@NotNull` annotation is missing from a type argument, you get a platform type instead: 

```
funtoSet(elements:(Mutable)Collection<String!>):(Mutable)Set<String!>{.}
```

Kotlin also takes into account nullability annotations on type arguments of base classes and interfaces. For example, there are two Java classes with the signatures provided below: 

```
publicclassBase<T>{}
```

```
publicclassDerivedextendsBase<@NullableString>{}
```

In the Kotlin code, passing the instance of `Derived` where the `Base<String>` is assumed produces the warning. 

```
funtakeBaseOfNotNullStrings(x: Base<String>){}
```

```
funmain(){
takeBaseOfNotNullStrings(Derived())// warning: nullability mismatch
}
```

The upper bound of `Derived` is set to `Base<String?>` , which is different from `Base<String>` . 

Learn more about Java generics in Kotlin. 

856 

## **Type parameters** 

By default, the nullability of plain type parameters in both Kotlin and Java is undefined. In Java, you can specify it using nullability annotations. Let's annotate the type parameter of the `Base` class: 

```
publicclassBase<@NotNullT>{}
```

When inheriting from `Base` , Kotlin expects a non-nullable type argument or type parameter. Thus, the following Kotlin code produces a warning: 

```
class Derived<K>: Base<K>{}// warning: K has undefined nullability
```

You can fix it by specifying the upper bound `K : Any` . 

Kotlin also supports nullability annotations on the bounds of Java type parameters. Let's add bounds to `Base` : 

```
publicclassBaseWithBound<Textends@NotNullNumber>{}
```

Kotlin translates this just as follows: 

```
class BaseWithBound<T : Number>{}
```

So passing nullable type as a type argument or type parameter produces a warning. 

Annotating type arguments and type parameters works with the Java 8 target or higher. The feature requires that the nullability annotations support the `TYPE_USE` target ( `org.jetbrains.annotations` supports this in version 15 and above). 

If a nullability annotation supports other targets that are applicable to a type in addition to the `TYPE_USE` target, `TYPE_USE` takes priority. For example, if `@Nullable` has both `TYPE_USE` and `METHOD` targets, the Java method signature `@Nullable String[] f()` becomes `fun f(): Array<String?>!` in Kotlin. 

## **JSpecify support** 

Kotlin supports the JSpecify nullability annotations, which provide a unified set of annotations for Java nullability. JSpecify allows you to provide detailed nullability information for Java declarations, helping Kotlin maintain nullsafety when working with Java code. 

Kotlin supports the following annotations in the `org.jspecify.annotations` package: 

- 

   - `@Nullable` marks a type as nullable. 

- 

   - `@NonNull` marks a type as non-nullable. 

- `@NullMarked` marks all types within a scope, for example a class or package, as non-nullable by default unless 

- annotated otherwise. 

This annotation doesn't apply to local variables and type variables (generics). Type variables remain "nullagnostic" until a specific nullable or non-nullable type is provided. 

- `@NullUnmarked` reverses the effect of `@NullMarked` , making all types within the scope as platform types. 

Consider the following Java class with JSpecify annotations: 

857 

```
// Java
importorg.jspecify.annotations.*;
@NullMarked
publicclassInventoryService{
publicStringnotNull(){return"";}
public@NullableStringnullable(){returnnull;}
}
```

In Kotlin, these are treated as regular nullable and non-nullable types rather than platform types: 

```
// Kotlin
funtest(inventory: InventoryService){
   inventory.notNull().length // OK
   inventory.nullable().length // Error: only safe (/.) or non-null asserted (/!) calls are allowed
}
```

By default, the Kotlin compiler reports nullability mismatches for JSpecify annotations as errors. You can customize the severity of JSpecify nullability diagnostics using the following compiler option: 

```
-Xjspecify-annotations=<report-level>
```

Available report levels are: 

Level Description 

`strict` Reports errors for nullability mismatches (default). 

`warn` Reports warnings. 

`ignore` Ignores nullability mismatches. 

For more information on JSpecify annotations, see the JSpecify user guide. 

## **JSR-305 support** 

- The `@Nonnull` annotation defined in JSR 305 is supported for denoting nullability of Java types. 

If the `@Nonnull(when = ...)` value is `When.ALWAYS` , the annotated type is treated as non-nullable; `When.MAYBE` and `When.NEVER` denote a nullable type; and `When.UNKNOWN` forces the type to be platform one. 

A library can be compiled against the JSR-305 annotations, but there's no need to make the annotations artifact (e.g. `jsr305.jar` ) a compile dependency for the library consumers. The Kotlin compiler can read the JSR-305 annotations from a library without the annotations present on the classpath. 

- Custom nullability qualifiers (KEEP 79) are also supported (see below). 

## **Type qualifier nicknames** 

If an annotation type is annotated with both `@TypeQualifierNickname` and JSR-305 `@Nonnull` (or its another nickname, such as `@CheckForNull` ), then the annotation type is itself used for retrieving precise nullability and has the same meaning as that nullability annotation: 

858 

## **`@TypeQualifierNickname`** 

```
@Nonnull(when =When.ALWAYS)
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
public@interfaceMyNonnull{
}
```

```
@TypeQualifierNickname
@CheckForNull// a nickname to another type qualifier nickname
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
public@interfaceMyNullable{
}
interfaceA{
@MyNullableStringfoo(@MyNonnullString x);
// in Kotlin (strict mode): `fun foo(x: String): String?`
Stringbar(List<@MyNonnullString> x);
// in Kotlin (strict mode): `fun bar(x: List<String>!): String!`
}
```

## **Type qualifier defaults** 

`@TypeQualifierDefault` allows introducing annotations that, when being applied, define the default nullability within the scope of the annotated element. 

Such annotation type should itself be annotated with both `@Nonnull` (or its nickname) and 

`@TypeQualifierDefault(...)` with one or more `ElementType` values: 

- 

   - `ElementType.METHOD` for return types of methods 

- 

   - `ElementType.PARAMETER` for value parameters 

- 

   - `ElementType.FIELD` for fields 

- `ElementType.TYPE_USE` for any type including type arguments, upper bounds of type parameters and 

- wildcard types 

The default nullability is used when a type itself is not annotated by a nullability annotation, and the default is determined by the innermost enclosing element annotated with a type qualifier default annotation with the `ElementType` matching the type usage. 

859 

```
@Nonnull
@TypeQualifierDefault({ElementType.METHOD,ElementType.PARAMETER})
public@interfaceNonNullApi{
}
```

```
@Nonnull(when =When.MAYBE)
@TypeQualifierDefault({ElementType.METHOD,ElementType.PARAMETER,ElementType.TYPE_USE})
public@interfaceNullableApi{
}
@NullableApi
interfaceA{
Stringfoo(String x);// fun foo(x: String?): String?
@NotNullApi// overriding default from the interface
Stringbar(String x,@NullableString y);// fun bar(x: String, y: String?): String
// The List<String> type argument is seen as nullable because of `@NullableApi`
// having the `TYPE_USE` element type:
Stringbaz(List<String> x);// fun baz(List<String?>?): String?
// The type of `x` parameter remains platform because there's an explicit
// UNKNOWN-marked nullability annotation:
Stringqux(@Nonnull(when =When.UNKNOWN)String x);// fun baz(x: String!): String?
}
```

The types in this example only take place with the strict mode enabled; otherwise, the platform types remain. See the `@UnderMigration` annotation and Compiler configuration sections. 

Package-level default nullability is also supported: 

```
// FILE: test/package-info.java
@NonNullApi// declaring all types in package 'test' as non-nullable by default
packagetest;
```

## **@UnderMigration annotation** 

The `@UnderMigration` annotation (provided in a separate artifact `kotlin-annotations-jvm` ) can be used by library maintainers to define the migration status for the nullability type qualifiers. 

The status value in `@UnderMigration(status = ...)` specifies how the compiler treats inappropriate usages of the annotated types in Kotlin (e.g. using a `@MyNullable` -annotated type value as non-null): 

- `MigrationStatus.STRICT` makes annotation work as any plain nullability annotation, i.e. report errors for the 

- inappropriate usages and affect the types in the annotated declarations as they are seen in Kotlin 

- `MigrationStatus.WARN` : the inappropriate usages are reported as compilation warnings instead of errors, but 

- the types in the annotated declarations remain platform 

- `MigrationStatus.IGNORE` makes the compiler ignore the nullability annotation completely 

A library maintainer can add `@UnderMigration` status to both type qualifier nicknames and type qualifier defaults: 

860 

```
@Nonnull(when =When.ALWAYS)
```

```
@TypeQualifierDefault({ElementType.METHOD,ElementType.PARAMETER})
@UnderMigration(status =MigrationStatus.WARN)
public@interfaceNonNullApi{
}
```

```
// The types in the class are non-nullable, but only warnings are reported
// because `@NonNullApi` is annotated `@UnderMigration(status = MigrationStatus.WARN)`
@NonNullApi
publicclassTest{}
```

The migration status of a nullability annotation is not inherited by its type qualifier nicknames but is applied to its usages in default type qualifiers. 

If a default type qualifier uses a type qualifier nickname and they are both `@UnderMigration` , the status from the default type qualifier is used. 

## **Compiler configuration** 

The JSR-305 checks can be configured by adding the `-Xjsr305` compiler flag with the following options (and their combination): 

- `-Xjsr305={strict|warn|ignore}` to set up the behavior for non- `@UnderMigration` annotations. Custom 

- nullability qualifiers, especially `@TypeQualifierDefault` , are already spread among many well-known libraries, and users may need to migrate smoothly when updating to the Kotlin version containing JSR-305 support. Since Kotlin 1.1.60, this flag only affects non- `@UnderMigration` annotations. 

- `-Xjsr305=under-migration:{strict|warn|ignore}` to override the behavior for the `@UnderMigration` 

- annotations. Users may have different view on the migration status for the libraries: they may want to have errors while the official migration status is `WARN` , or vice versa, they may wish to postpone errors reporting for some until they complete their migration. 

- `-Xjsr305=@<fq.name>:{strict|warn|ignore}` to override the behavior for a single annotation, where `<fq.name>` is the fully qualified class name of the annotation. May appear several times for different 

- annotations. This is useful for managing the migration state for a particular library. 

The `strict` , `warn` and `ignore` values have the same meaning as those of `MigrationStatus` , and only the `strict` mode affects the types in the annotated declarations as they are seen in Kotlin. 

- Note: the built-in JSR-305 annotations `@Nonnull` , `@Nullable` and `@CheckForNull` are always enabled and affect the types of the annotated declarations in Kotlin, regardless of compiler configuration with the `-Xjsr305` flag. 

For example, adding `-Xjsr305=ignore -Xjsr305=under-migration:ignore -` 

`Xjsr305=@org.library.MyNullable:warn` to the compiler arguments makes the compiler generate warnings for inappropriate usages of types annotated by `@org.library.MyNullable` and ignore all other JSR-305 annotations. 

The default behavior is the same to `-Xjsr305=warn` . The `strict` value should be considered experimental (more checks may be added to it in the future). 

861 

## **Mapped types** 

Kotlin treats some Java types specifically. Such types are not loaded from Java "as is", but are mapped to corresponding Kotlin types. The mapping only matters at compile time, the runtime representation remains unchanged. Java's primitive types are mapped to corresponding Kotlin types (keeping platform types in mind): 

## **Java type Kotlin type** 

```
bytekotlin.Byte
shortkotlin.Short
intkotlin.Int
longkotlin.Long
charkotlin.Char
floatkotlin.Float
doublekotlin.Double
booleankotlin.Boolean
```

Some non-primitive built-in classes are also mapped: 

**Java type Kotlin type** `java.lang.Object kotlin.Any! java.lang.Cloneable kotlin.Cloneable! java.lang.Comparable kotlin.Comparable! java.lang.Enum kotlin.Enum! java.lang.annotation.Annotation kotlin.Annotation! java.lang.CharSequence kotlin.CharSequence! java.lang.String kotlin.String! java.lang.Number kotlin.Number!` 

862 

**Java type** 

**Kotlin type** 

```
java.lang.Throwable
```

```
kotlin.Throwable!
```

Java's boxed primitive types are mapped to nullable Kotlin types: 

**==> picture [212 x 291] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Java type Kotlin type<br>java.lang.Byte kotlin.Byte?<br>java.lang.Short kotlin.Short?<br>java.lang.Integer kotlin.Int?<br>java.lang.Long kotlin.Long?<br>java.lang.Character kotlin.Char?<br>java.lang.Float kotlin.Float?<br>java.lang.Double kotlin.Double?<br>java.lang.Boolean kotlin.Boolean?<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Note that a boxed primitive type used as a type parameter is mapped to a platform type: for example, `List<java.lang.Integer>` becomes a `List<Int!>` in Kotlin. 

Collection types may be read-only or mutable in Kotlin, so Java's collections are mapped as follows (all Kotlin types in this table reside in the package `kotlin.collections` ): 

|**Java type**|**Kotlin read-only**|**Kotlin mutable type**|**Loaded platform type**|
|---|---|---|---|
||**type**|||
|`Iterator<T>`|`Iterator<T>`|`MutableIterator<T>`|`(Mutable)Iterator<T>!`|
|`Iterable<T>`|`Iterable<T>`|`MutableIterable<T>`|`(Mutable)Iterable<T>!`|
|`Collection<T>`|`Collection<T>`|`MutableCollection<T>`|`(Mutable)Collection<T>!`|
|`Set<T>`|`Set<T>`|`MutableSet<T>`|`(Mutable)Set<T>!`|
|`List<T>`|`List<T>`|`MutableList<T>`|`(Mutable)List<T>!`|



863 

**Java type Kotlin read-only** 

**Kotlin mutable type** 

**Loaded platform type** 

## **type** 

```
ListIterator<TListIterator<T>MutableListIterator<T>(Mutable)ListIterator<T>!
>
Map<K, V>Map<K, V>MutableMap<K, V>(Mutable)Map<K, V>!
Map.Entry<K,Map.Entry<K, V>MutableMap.MutableEntry<K,(Mutable)Map.(Mutable)Entry<K,
V>V>V>!
```

Java's arrays are mapped as mentioned below: 

**Java type Kotlin type** 

```
int[]kotlin.IntArray!
String[]kotlin.Array<(out) String!>!
```

- The static members of these Java types are not directly accessible on the companion objects of the Kotlin types. To call them, use the full qualified names of the Java types, e.g. 

`java.lang.Integer.toHexString(foo)` . 

## **Java generics in Kotlin** 

Kotlin's generics are a little different from Java's (see Generics). When importing Java types to Kotlin, the following conversions are done: 

- Java's wildcards are converted into type projections: 

   - `Foo<? extends Bar>` becomes `Foo<out Bar!>!` 

   - `Foo<? super Bar>` becomes `Foo<in Bar!>!` 

- Java's raw types are converted into star projections: 

   - `List` becomes `List<*>!` that is `List<out Any?>!` 

Like Java's, Kotlin's generics are not retained at runtime: objects do not carry information about actual type arguments passed to their constructors. For example, `ArrayList<Integer>()` is indistinguishable from 

`ArrayList<Character>()` . This makes it impossible to perform `is` -checks that take generics into account. Kotlin only allows `is` -checks for star-projected generic types: 

```
if(a is List<Int>)// Error: cannot check if it is really a List of Ints
// but
if(a is List>)// OK: no guarantees about the contents of the list
```

864 

## **Java arrays** 

Arrays in Kotlin are invariant, unlike Java. This means that Kotlin won't let you assign an `Array<String>` to an 

`Array<Any>` , which prevents a possible runtime failure. Passing an array of a subclass as an array of superclass to a Kotlin method is also prohibited, but for Java methods this is allowed through platform types of the form `Array<(out) String>!` . 

Arrays are used with primitive datatypes on the Java platform to avoid the cost of boxing/unboxing operations. As Kotlin hides those implementation details, a workaround is required to interface with Java code. There are specialized classes for every type of primitive array ( `IntArray` , `DoubleArray` , `CharArray` , and so on) to handle this case. They are not related to the `Array` class and are compiled down to Java's primitive arrays for maximum performance. 

Suppose there is a Java method that accepts an int array of indices: 

```
publicclassJavaArrayExample{
publicvoidremoveIndices(int[] indices){
// code here//.
}
}
```

To pass an array of primitive values, you can do the following in Kotlin: 

```
val javaObj =JavaArrayExample()
val array =intArrayOf(0,1,2,3)
javaObj.removeIndices(array)// passes int[] to method
```

When compiling to the JVM bytecode, the compiler optimizes access to arrays so that there's no overhead introduced: 

```
val array =arrayOf(1,2,3,4)
array[1]= array[1]*2// no actual calls to get() and set() generated
for(x in array){// no iterator created
print(x)
}
```

Even when you navigate with an index, it does not introduce any overhead: 

```
for(i in array.indices){// no iterator created
    array[i]+=2
}
```

Finally, `in` -checks have no overhead either: 

```
if(i in array.indices){// same as (i /= 0 /& i < array.size)
print(array[i])
}
```

## **Java varargs** 

Java classes sometimes use a method declaration for the indices with a variable number of arguments (varargs): 

865 

```
publicclassJavaArrayExample{
```

```
publicvoidremoveIndicesVarArg(int//. indices){
// code here//.
}
}
```

In that case you need to use the spread operator `*` to pass the `IntArray` : 

```
val javaObj =JavaArrayExample()
val array =intArrayOf(0,1,2,3)
javaObj.removeIndicesVarArg(*array)
```

## **Operators** 

Since Java has no way of marking methods for which it makes sense to use the operator syntax, Kotlin allows using any Java methods with the right name and signature as operator overloads and other conventions ( `invoke()` etc.) Calling Java methods using the infix call syntax is not allowed. 

## **Checked exceptions** 

In Kotlin, all exceptions are unchecked, meaning that the compiler does not force you to catch any of them. So, when you call a Java method that declares a checked exception, Kotlin does not force you to do anything: 

```
funrender(list: List>,to: Appendable){
for(item in list){
to.append(item.toString())// Java would require us to catch IOException here
}
}
```

## **Object methods** 

When Java types are imported into Kotlin, all the references of the type `java.lang.Object` are turned into `Any` . Since `Any` is not platform-specific, it only declares `toString()` , `hashCode()` and `equals()` as its members, so to make other members of `java.lang.Object` available, Kotlin uses extension functions. 

## **`wait()` and** **`notify()`** 

Methods `wait()` and `notify()` are not available on references of type `Any` . Their usage is generally discouraged in favor of `java.util.concurrent` . 

If you have to call these methods, access them through Java objects and suppress the `PLATFORM_CLASS_MAPPED_TO_KOTLIN` warning: 

866 

```
import java.util.LinkedList
```

```
class SimpleBlockingQueue<T>(privateval capacity: Int){
privateval queue = LinkedList<T>()
```

```
// java.lang.Object is used specifically to access wait() and notify()
// In Kotlin, the standard 'Any' type does not expose these methods.
@Suppress("PLATFORM_CLASS_MAPPED_TO_KOTLIN")
privateval lock =Object()
funput(item: T){
synchronized(lock){
while(queue.size /= capacity){
                lock.wait()
}
            queue.add(item)
println("Produced: $item")
            lock.notifyAll()
}
}
funtake(): T {
synchronized(lock){
while(queue.isEmpty()){
                lock.wait()
}
val item = queue.removeFirst()
println("Consumed: $item")
            lock.notifyAll()
return item
}
}
}
```

Or explicitly cast to `java.lang.Object` and suppress the `PLATFORM_CLASS_MAPPED_TO_KOTLIN` warning: 

```
@Suppress("PLATFORM_CLASS_MAPPED_TO_KOTLIN")
(foo as java.lang.Object).wait()
```

## **`getClass()`** 

To retrieve the Java class of an object, use the `java` extension property on a class reference: 

```
val fooClass = foo/:class.java
```

The code above uses a bound class reference. You can also use the `javaClass` extension property: 

```
val fooClass = foo.javaClass
```

## **`clone()`** 

To override `clone()` , your class needs to extend `kotlin.Cloneable` : 

867 

```
class Example : Cloneable {
overridefunclone(): Any {.}
}
```

Don't forget about Effective Java, 3rd Edition, Item 13: Override clone judiciously. 

## **`finalize()`** 

To override `finalize()` , all you need to do is simply declare it, without using the `override` keyword: 

```
class C {
protectedfunfinalize(){
// finalization logic
}
}
```

According to Java's rules, `finalize()` must not be `private` . 

## **Inheritance from Java classes** 

At most one Java class (and as many Java interfaces as you like) can be a supertype for a class in Kotlin. 

## **Accessing static members** 

Static members of Java classes form "companion objects" for these classes. You can't pass such a "companion object" around as a value but can access the members explicitly, for example: 

```
if(Character.isLetter(a)){.}
```

To access static members of a Java type that is mapped to a Kotlin type, use the full qualified name of the Java type: `java.lang.Integer.bitCount(foo)` . 

## **Java reflection** 

Java reflection works on Kotlin classes and vice versa. As mentioned above, you can use `instance::class.java` , `ClassName::class.java` or `instance.javaClass` to enter Java reflection through `java.lang.Class` . Do not use `ClassName.javaClass` for this purpose because it refers to `ClassName` 's companion object class, which is the same as `ClassName.Companion::class.java` and not `ClassName::class.java` . 

For each primitive type, there are two different Java classes, and Kotlin provides ways to get both. For example, `Int::class.java` will return the class instance representing the primitive type itself, corresponding to `Integer.TYPE` in Java. To get the class of the corresponding wrapper type, use `Int::class.javaObjectType` , which is equivalent of Java's `Integer.class` . 

Other supported cases include acquiring a Java getter/setter method or a backing field for a Kotlin property, a `KProperty` for a Java field, a Java method or constructor for a `KFunction` and vice versa. 

868 

## **SAM conversions** 

Kotlin supports SAM conversions for both Java and Kotlin interfaces. This support for Java means that Kotlin function literals can be automatically converted into implementations of Java interfaces with a single non-default method, as long as the parameter types of the interface method match the parameter types of the Kotlin function. 

You can use this for creating instances of SAM interfaces: 

```
val runnable = Runnable {println("This runs in a runnable")}
```

...and in method calls: 

```
val executor =ThreadPoolExecutor()
// Java signature: void execute(Runnable command)
executor.execute{println("This runs in a thread pool")}
```

If the Java class has multiple methods taking functional interfaces, you can choose the one you need to call by using an adapter function that converts a lambda to a specific SAM type. Those adapter functions are also generated by the compiler when needed: 

```
executor.execute(Runnable {println("This runs in a thread pool")})
```

SAM conversions only work for interfaces, not for abstract classes, even if those also have just a single abstract method. 

## **Using JNI with Kotlin** 

To declare a function that is implemented in native (C or C++) code, you need to mark it with the `external` modifier: 

```
externalfunfoo(x: Int): Double
```

The rest of the procedure works in exactly the same way as in Java. 

You can also mark property getters and setters as `external` : 

```
var myProperty: String
externalget
externalset
```

Behind the scenes, this will create two functions `getMyProperty` and `setMyProperty` , both marked as `external` . 

## **Using Lombok-generated declarations in Kotlin** 

You can use Java's Lombok-generated declarations in Kotlin code. If you need to generate and use these declarations in the same mixed Java/Kotlin module, you can learn how to do this on the Lombok compiler plugin's page. If you call such declarations from another module, then you don't need to use this plugin to compile that module. 

869 

## **Calling Kotlin from Java** 

Kotlin code can be easily called from Java. For example, instances of a Kotlin class can be seamlessly created and operated in Java methods. However, there are certain differences between Java and Kotlin that require attention when integrating Kotlin code into Java. On this page, we'll describe the ways to tailor the interop of your Kotlin code with its Java clients. 

## **Properties** 

A Kotlin property is compiled to the following Java elements: 

- a getter method, with the name calculated by prepending the `get` prefix. 

- a setter method, with the name calculated by prepending the `set` prefix (only for `var` properties). 

- a private field, with the same name as the property name (only for properties with backing fields). 

For example, `var firstName: String` compiles to the following Java declarations: 

```
privateString firstName;
publicStringgetFirstName(){
return firstName;
}
publicvoidsetFirstName(String firstName){
this.firstName = firstName;
}
```

If the name of the property starts with `is` , a different name mapping rule is used: the name of the getter is the same as the property name, and the name of the setter is obtained by replacing `is` with `set` . For example, for a property `isOpen` , the getter is called `isOpen()` and the setter is called `setOpen()` . This rule applies for properties of any type, not just `Boolean` . 

## **Package-level functions** 

All the functions and properties declared in a file `app.kt` inside a package `org.example` , including extension functions, are compiled into static methods of a Java class named `org.example.AppKt` . 

```
// app.kt
package org.example
class Util
fungetTime(){/*//.//}
// Java
neworg.example.Util();
org.example.AppKt.getTime();
```

To set a custom name to the generated Java class, use the `@JvmName` annotation: 

870 

```
@file:JvmName("DemoUtils")
```

```
package org.example
class Util
fungetTime(){/*//.//}
```

```
// Java
neworg.example.Util();
org.example.DemoUtils.getTime();
```

Having multiple files with the same generated Java class name (the same package and the same name or the same `@JvmName` annotation) is normally an error. However, the compiler can generate a single Java facade class which has the specified name and contains all the declarations from all the files which have that name. To enable the generation of such a facade, use the `@JvmMultifileClass` annotation in all such files. 

```
// oldutils.kt
@file:JvmName("Utils")
@file:JvmMultifileClass
```

```
package org.example
fungetTime(){/*//.//}
```

```
// newutils.kt
@file:JvmName("Utils")
@file:JvmMultifileClass
```

```
package org.example
```

```
fungetDate(){/*//.//}
```

```
// Java
org.example.Utils.getTime();
org.example.Utils.getDate();
```

## **Instance fields** 

If you need to expose a Kotlin property as a field in Java, annotate it with the `@JvmField` annotation. The field has the same visibility as the underlying property. You can annotate a property with `@JvmField` if it: 

- 

   - has a backing field 

- is not private 

- does not have `open` , `override` or `const` modifiers 

- 

- is not a delegated property 

```
classUser(id: String){
@JvmFieldval ID = id
}
```

871 

```
// Java
classJavaClient{
publicStringgetID(User user){
return user.ID;
}
}
```

Late-Initialized properties are also exposed as fields. The visibility of the field is the same as the visibility of the `lateinit` property setter. 

## **Static fields** 

Kotlin properties declared in a named object or a companion object have static backing fields either in that named object or in the class containing the companion object. 

Usually these fields are private, but they can be exposed in one of the following ways: 

- `@JvmField` annotation 

- 

   - `lateinit` modifier 

- 

- `const` modifier 

Annotating such a property with `@JvmField` makes it a static field with the same visibility as the property itself. 

```
classKey(val value: Int){
companionobject{
@JvmField
val COMPARATOR: Comparator<Key>= compareBy<Key>{ it.value }
}
}
// Java
Key.COMPARATOR.compare(key1, key2);
// public static final field in Key class
```

A late-initialized property in an object or a companion object has a static backing field with the same visibility as the property setter. 

```
object Singleton {
lateinitvar provider: Provider
}
// Java
Singleton.provider =newProvider();
// public static non-final field in Singleton class
```

Properties declared as `const` (in classes as well as at the top level) are turned into static fields in Java: 

872 

```
// file example.kt
object Obj {
constval CONST =1
}
class C {
companionobject{
constval VERSION =9
}
}
constval MAX =239
```

In Java: 

```
int constant =Obj.CONST;
int max =ExampleKt.MAX;
int version =C.VERSION;
```

## **Static methods** 

As mentioned above, Kotlin represents package-level functions as static methods. Kotlin can also generate static methods for functions defined in named objects or companion objects if you annotate those functions as 

`@JvmStatic` . If you use this annotation, the compiler generates both a static method in the enclosing class of the object and an instance method in the object itself. For example: 

```
class C {
companionobject{
@JvmStaticfuncallStatic(){}
funcallNonStatic(){}
}
}
```

Now, `callStatic()` is static in Java while `callNonStatic()` is not: 

```
C.callStatic();// works fine
C.callNonStatic();// error: not a static method
C.Companion.callStatic();// instance method remains
C.Companion.callNonStatic();// the only way it works
```

Similarly, for named objects: 

```
object Obj {
@JvmStaticfuncallStatic(){}
funcallNonStatic(){}
}
```

In Java: 

```
Obj.callStatic();// works fine
Obj.callNonStatic();// error
Obj.INSTANCE.callNonStatic();// works, a call through the singleton instance
Obj.INSTANCE.callStatic();// works too
```

873 

Starting from Kotlin 1.3, `@JvmStatic` applies to functions defined in companion objects of interfaces as well. Such functions compile to static methods in interfaces. Note that static method in interfaces were introduced in Java 1.8, so be sure to use the corresponding targets. 

```
interface ChatBot {
companionobject{
@JvmStaticfungreet(username: String){
println("Hello, $username")
}
}
}
```

You can also apply `@JvmStatic` annotation to the property of an object or a companion object making its getter and setter methods static members in that object or the class containing the companion object. 

## **Default methods in interfaces** 

When targeting the JVM, Kotlin compiles functions declared in interfaces to default methods unless configured otherwise. These are concrete methods in interfaces that Java classes can inherit directly, without reimplementation. 

Here is an example of a Kotlin interface with a default method: 

```
interface Robot {
funmove(){println("~walking~")}// will be default in the Java interface
funspeak(): Unit
}
```

The default implementation is available for Java classes implementing the interface. 

```
//Java implementation
publicclass C3PO implementsRobot{
// move() implementation from Robot is available implicitly
@Override
publicvoidspeak(){
System.out.println("I beg your pardon, sir");
}
}
```

```
C3PO c3po =newC3PO();
c3po.move();// default implementation from the Robot interface
c3po.speak();
```

Implementations of the interface can override default methods. 

874 

```
//Java
publicclass BB8 implementsRobot{
//own implementation of the default method
@Override
publicvoidmove(){
System.out.println("~rolling~");
}
@Override
publicvoidspeak(){
System.out.println("Beep-beep");
}
}
```

## **Compatibility modes for default methods** 

Kotlin provides three modes for controlling how functions in interfaces are compiled to JVM default methods. These modes determine whether the compiler generates compatibility bridges and static methods in `DefaultImpls` classes. 

You can control this behavior using the `-jvm-default` compiler option: 

The `-jvm-default` compiler option replaces the deprecated `-Xjvm-default` option. 

Learn more about compatibility modes: 

## **enable** 

Default behavior. Generates default implementations in interfaces and includes compatibility bridges and `DefaultImpls` classes. This mode maintains compatibility with older compiled Kotlin code. 

## **no-compatibility** 

Generates only default implementations in interfaces. Skips compatibility bridges and `DefaultImpls` classes. Use this mode for new codebases that don't interact with code that relies on `DefaultImpls` classes. This can break binary compatibility with older Kotlin code. 

If interface delegation is used, all interface methods are delegated. 

## **disable** 

Disables default implementations in interfaces. Only compatibility bridges and `DefaultImpls` classes are generated. 

## **Visibility** 

The Kotlin visibility modifiers map to Java in the following way: 

- `private` members are compiled to `private` members. 

- `private` top-level declarations are compiled to `private` top-level declarations. Package-private accessors 

- are also included, if accessed from within a class. 

875 

- `protected` remains `protected` . (Note that Java allows accessing protected members from other classes in 

- the same package and Kotlin doesn't, so Java classes will have broader access to the code.) 

- `internal` declarations become `public` in Java. Members of `internal` classes go through name mangling, 

- to make it harder to accidentally use them from Java and to allow overloading for members with the same signature that don't see each other according to Kotlin rules. 

- `public` remains `public` . 

## **KClass** 

Sometimes you need to call a Kotlin method with a parameter of type `KClass` . There is no automatic conversion from `Class` to `KClass` , so you have to do it manually by invoking the equivalent of the `Class<T>.kotlin` extension property: 

```
kotlin.jvm.JvmClassMappingKt.getKotlinClass(MainView.class)
```

## **Handling signature clashes with @JvmName** 

Sometimes we have a named function in Kotlin, for which we need a different JVM name in bytecode. The most prominent example happens due to type erasure: 

```
fun List<String>.filterValid(): List<String>
fun List<Int>.filterValid(): List<Int>
```

These two functions can not be defined side-by-side, because their JVM signatures are the same: 

`filterValid(Ljava/util/List;)Ljava/util/List;` . If we really want them to have the same name in Kotlin, we can annotate one (or both) of them with `@JvmName` and specify a different name as an argument: 

```
fun List<String>.filterValid(): List<String>
@JvmName("filterValidInt")
fun List<Int>.filterValid(): List<Int>
```

From Kotlin, they are accessible by the same name `filterValid` , but from Java it is `filterValid` and `filterValidInt` . 

The same trick applies when we need to have a property `x` along with a function `getX()` : 

```
val x: Int
@JvmName("getX_prop")
get()=15
fungetX()=10
```

To change the names of generated accessor methods for properties without explicitly implemented getters and setters, you can use `@get:JvmName` and `@set:JvmName` : 

```
@get:JvmName("x")
@set:JvmName("changeX")
var x: Int =23
```

876 

## **Overloads generation** 

Normally, if you write a Kotlin function with default parameter values, it's visible in Java only as a full signature, with all parameters present. 

You can use the `@IntroducedAt` annotation or the `@JvmOverloads` annotation to generate overloads for optional parameters. 

Use `@IntroducedAt` when you add new optional parameters to published APIs and want the generated overloads to reflect the version in which each parameter was introduced. The compiler uses this information to automatically generate the corresponding hidden overloads. 

This gives you version-based overload generation and helps preserve binary compatibility for callers compiled against older versions of your library. 

The `@IntroducedAt` annotation is Experimental. To opt in, use the `@OptIn(ExperimentalVersionOverloading::class)` annotation. 

Here's an example where the `Button()` function receives multiple optional parameters over several API versions: 

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalVersionOverloading/:class)
funButton(
    label: String ="",
    color: Color = DefaultColor,
@IntroducedAt("1.1") borderColor: Color = DefaultBorderColor,
@IntroducedAt("1.2") borderStyle: Style = DefaultBorderStyle,
@IntroducedAt("1.2") borderWidth: Int =1,
    onClick:()/> Unit
){
// Function body
}
```

Based on these versions, the compiler generates hidden overloads for the original API and for each API version that introduced new optional parameters: 

877 

```
// Original API
Button(
    label: String,
    color: Color,
    onClick:()/> Unit
)
// Version 1.1
Button(
    label: String,
    color: Color,
    borderColor: Color,
    onClick:()/> Unit
)
// Version 1.2
Button(
    label: String,
    color: Color,
    borderColor: Color,
    borderStyle: Style,
    borderWidth: Int,
    onClick:()/> Unit
)
```

If you want to expose multiple overloads to Java callers, you can also use the `@JvmOverloads` annotation. 

The annotation also works for constructors, static methods, and so on. It can't be used on abstract methods, including methods defined in interfaces. For example, consider a `Circle` class with default parameter values: 

```
class Circle @JvmOverloadsconstructor(centerX: Int, centerY: Int, radius: Double =1.0){
@JvmOverloadsfundraw(label: String, lineWidth: Int =1, color: String ="red"){/*//.//}
}
```

For every parameter with a default value, this generates one additional overload, which has this parameter and all parameters to the right of it in the parameter list removed. In this example, the following is generated: 

```
// Constructors:
Circle(int centerX,int centerY,double radius)
Circle(int centerX,int centerY)
// Methods
voiddraw(String label,int lineWidth,String color){}
voiddraw(String label,int lineWidth){}
voiddraw(String label){}
```

Since both `@IntroducedAt` and `@JvmOverloads` annotations generate overloads, using them together can create conflicting overloads. If you use both annotations, the compiler reports a warning. If you suppress the warning, the compiler prioritizes overloads generated from the `@IntroducedAt` annotation. 

Note that, as described in Secondary constructors, if a class has default values for all constructor parameters, a public constructor with no arguments is generated for it. This works even if the `@JvmOverloads` annotation is not specified. 

## **Checked exceptions** 

Kotlin does not have checked exceptions. So, normally the Java signatures of Kotlin functions do not declare exceptions thrown. Thus, if you have a function in Kotlin like this: 

878 

```
// example.kt
package demo
funwriteToFile(){
/*//.//
throwIOException()
}
```

And you want to call it from Java and catch the exception: 

```
// Java
try{
demo.Example.writeToFile();
}catch(IOException e){
// error: writeToFile() does not declare IOException in the throws list
// //.
}
```

You get an error message from the Java compiler, because `writeToFile()` does not declare `IOException` . To work around this problem, use the `@Throws` annotation in Kotlin: 

```
@Throws(IOException/:class)
funwriteToFile(){
/*//.//
throwIOException()
}
```

## **Null-safety** 

When calling Kotlin functions from Java, nobody prevents us from passing `null` as a non-nullable parameter. That's why Kotlin generates runtime checks for all public functions that expect non-nulls. This way we get a `NullPointerException` in the Java code immediately. 

## **Variant generics** 

When Kotlin classes make use of declaration-site variance, there are two options of how their usages are seen from the Java code. For example, imagine you have the following class and two functions that use it: 

```
class Box<out T>(val value: T)
interface Base
class Derived : Base
funboxDerived(value: Derived): Box<Derived>=Box(value)
fununboxBase(box: Box<Base>): Base = box.value
```

A naive way of translating these functions into Java would be this: 

```
Box<Derived>boxDerived(Derived value){//.}
BaseunboxBase(Box<Base> box){//.}
```

The problem is that in Kotlin you can write `unboxBase(boxDerived(Derived()))` but in Java that would be impossible because in Java the class `Box` is invariant in its parameter `T` , and thus `Box<Derived>` is not a subtype of `Box<Base>` . To make this work in Java, you would have to define `unboxBase` as follows: 

879 

```
BaseunboxBase(Box<?extendsBase> box){//.}
```

This declaration uses Java's wildcards types ( `? extends Base` ) to emulate declaration-site variance through usesite variance, because it is all Java has. 

To make Kotlin APIs work in Java, the compiler generates `Box<Super>` as `Box<? extends Super>` for covariantly defined `Box` (or `Foo<? super Bar>` for contravariantly defined `Foo` ) when it appears as a parameter. When it's a return value, wildcards are not generated, because otherwise Java clients will have to deal with them (and it's against the common Java coding style). Therefore, the functions from our example are actually translated as follows: 

```
// return type - no wildcards
Box<Derived>boxDerived(Derived value){//.}
// parameter - wildcards
BaseunboxBase(Box<?extendsBase> box){//.}
```

When the argument type is final, there's usually no point in generating the wildcard, so `Box<String>` is always `Box<String>` , no matter what position it takes. 

If you need wildcards where they are not generated by default, use the `@JvmWildcard` annotation: 

```
funboxDerived(value: Derived): Box<@JvmWildcard Derived>=Box(value)
// is translated to
// Box<? extends Derived> boxDerived(Derived value) { //. }
```

In the opposite case, if you don't need wildcards where they are generated, use `@JvmSuppressWildcards` : 

```
fununboxBase(box: Box<@JvmSuppressWildcards Base>): Base = box.value
// is translated to
// Base unboxBase(Box<Base> box) { //. }
```

`@JvmSuppressWildcards` can be used not only on individual type arguments, but on entire declarations, such as functions or classes, causing all wildcards inside them to be suppressed. 

## **Translation of type Nothing** 

The type `Nothing` is special, because it has no natural counterpart in Java. Indeed, every Java reference type, including `java.lang.Void` , accepts `null` as a value, and `Nothing` doesn't accept even that. So, this type cannot be accurately represented in the Java world. This is why Kotlin generates a raw type where an argument of type `Nothing` is used: 

```
funemptyList(): List<Nothing>=listOf()
// is translated to
// List emptyList() { //. }
```

880 

Experimental 

## **Inline value classes** 

If you want Java code to work smoothly with Kotlin's inline value classes, you can use the `@JvmExposeBoxed` annotation or the `-Xjvm-expose-boxed` compiler option. These approaches ensure Kotlin generates the necessary boxed representations for Java interoperability. 

By default, Kotlin compiles inline value classes to use **unboxed representations** , which are often inaccessible from Java. For example, you can't call the constructor for the `MyInt` class from Java: 

```
@JvmInline
value classMyInt(val value: Int)
```

So the following Java code fails: 

```
MyInt input =newMyInt(5);
```

You can use the `@JvmExposeBoxed` annotation so that Kotlin generates a public constructor that you can call from Java directly. You can apply the annotation at the following levels to ensure fine-grained control over what's exposed to Java: 

   - Class 

- 

   - Constructor 

- Function 

Before using the `@JvmExposeBoxed` annotation in your code, you must opt in by using 

`@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi::class)` . For example: 

```
@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi/:class)
@JvmExposeBoxed
@JvmInline
value classMyInt(val value: Int)
@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi/:class)
@JvmExposeBoxed
fun MyInt.timesTwoBoxed(): MyInt =MyInt(this.value *2)
```

With these annotations, Kotlin generates a Java-accessible constructor for the `MyInt` class **and** a variant for the extension function that uses the boxed form of the value class. So the following Java code runs successfully: 

```
MyInt input =newMyInt(5);
MyInt output =ExampleKt.timesTwoBoxed(input);
```

To apply this behavior to all inline value classes and the functions that use them within a module, compile it with the `-Xjvm-expose-boxed` option. Compiling with this option has the same effect as if every declaration in the module has the `@JvmExposeBoxed` annotation. 

## **Inherited functions** 

The `@JvmExposeBoxed` annotation doesn't automatically generate boxed representations for inherited functions. 

To generate the necessary representation for an inherited function, override it in the implementing or extending class: 

881 

```
interface IdTransformer {
funtransformId(rawId: UInt): UInt = rawId
}
```

```
// Doesn't generate a boxed representation for the transformId() function
@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi/:class)
@JvmExposeBoxed
class LightweightTransformer : IdTransformer
// Generates a boxed representation for the transformId() function
@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibApi/:class)
@JvmExposeBoxed
class DefaultTransformer : IdTransformer {
overridefuntransformId(rawId: UInt): UInt =super.transformId(rawId)
}
```

To learn how inheritance works in Kotlin and how to call superclass implementations using the `super` keyword, see Inheritance. 

## **Using Java records in Kotlin** 

Records are classes in Java for storing immutable data. Records carry a fixed set of values – the records components. They have a concise syntax in Java and save you from having to write boilerplate code: 

```
// Java
publicrecordPerson(String name,int age){}
```

The compiler automatically generates a final class inherited from `java.lang.Record` with the following members: 

- 

   - a private final field for each record component 

- a public constructor with parameters for all fields 

- a set of methods to implement structural equality: `equals()` , `hashCode()` , `toString()` 

- a public method for reading each record component 

Records are very similar to Kotlin data classes. 

## **Using Java records from Kotlin code** 

You can use record classes with components that are declared in Java the same way you would use classes with properties in Kotlin. To access the record component, just use its name like you do for Kotlin properties: 

```
val newPerson =Person("Kotlin",10)
val firstName = newPerson.name
```

## **Declare records in Kotlin** 

Kotlin supports record declaration only for data classes, and the data class must meet the requirements. 

To declare a record class in Kotlin, use the `@JvmRecord` annotation: 

882 

Applying `@JvmRecord` to an existing class is not a binary compatible change. It alters the naming convention of the class property accessors. 

```
@JvmRecord
dataclassPerson(val name: String,val age: Int)
```

This JVM-specific annotation enables generating: 

- the record components corresponding to the class properties in the class file 

- the property accessor methods named according to the Java record naming convention 

The data class provides `equals()` , `hashCode()` , and `toString()` method implementations. 

## **Requirements** 

To declare a data class with the `@JvmRecord` annotation, it must meet the following requirements: 

- The class must be in a module that targets JVM 16 bytecode (or 15 if the `-Xjvm-enable-preview` compiler option is enabled). 

- The class cannot explicitly inherit any other class (including `Any` ) because all JVM records implicitly inherit `java.lang.Record` . However, the class can implement interfaces. 

- The class cannot declare any properties with backing fields – except those initialized from the corresponding primary constructor parameters. 

- The class cannot declare any mutable properties with backing fields. 

- The class cannot be local. 

- 

- The primary constructor of the class must be as visible as the class itself. 

## **Enable JVM records** 

JVM records require the `16` target version or higher of the generated JVM bytecode. 

To specify it explicitly, use the `jvmTarget` compiler option in Gradle or Maven. 

## Experimental 

## **Annotate record components in Kotlin** 

In Java, annotations on a record component are automatically propagated to the backing field, getter, setter, and constructor parameter. You can replicate this behavior in Kotlin by using the `all` use-site target. 

For example: 

```
@JvmRecord
dataclassPerson(val name: String,@all:Positiveval age: Int)
```

When you use `@JvmRecord` with `@all:` , Kotlin: 

- Propagates the annotation to the property, backing field, constructor parameter, getter and setter. 

- Applies the annotation to the record component as well, if the annotation supports Java's `RECORD_COMPONENT` . 

883 

## **Make annotations work with record components** 

To make an annotation available for both Kotlin properties **and** Java record components, add the following metaannotations to your annotation declaration: 

- For Kotlin: `@Target` 

- For Java record components: `@java.lang.annotation.Target` 

For example: 

```
@Target(AnnotationTarget.CLASS, AnnotationTarget.PROPERTY)
@java.lang.annotation.Target(ElementType.CLASS, ElementType.RECORD_COMPONENT)
annotationclass ExampleClass
```

You can now apply `@ExampleClass` to Kotlin classes and properties, as well as Java classes and record components. 

## **Further discussion** 

See this language proposal for JVM records for further technical details and discussion. 

## **Strings in Java and Kotlin** 

This guide contains examples of how to perform typical tasks with strings in Java and Kotlin. It will help you migrate from Java to Kotlin and write your code in the authentically Kotlin way. 

## **Concatenate strings** 

In Java, you can do this in the following way: 

```
// Java
String name ="Joe";
System.out.println("Hello, "+ name);
System.out.println("Your name is "+ name.length()+" characters long");
```

In Kotlin, use the dollar sign ( `$` ) before the variable name to interpolate the value of this variable into your string: 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val name ="Joe"
println("Hello, $name")
println("Your name is ${name.length} characters long")
}
```

You can interpolate the value of a complicated expression by surrounding it with curly braces, like in `${name.length}` . See string templates for more information. 

## **Build a string** 

In Java, you can use the StringBuilder: 

884 

```
// Java
StringBuilder countDown =newStringBuilder();
for(int i =5; i >0; i/-){
    countDown.append(i);
    countDown.append("\n");
}
System.out.println(countDown);
```

In Kotlin, use buildString() – an inline function that takes logic to construct a string as a lambda argument: 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val countDown = buildString {
for(i in5 downTo 1){
append(i)
appendLine()
}
}
println(countDown)
}
```

Under the hood, the `buildString` uses the same `StringBuilder` class as in Java, and you access it via an implicit `this` inside the lambda. 

Learn more about lambda coding conventions. 

## **Create a string from collection items** 

In Java, you use the Stream API to filter, map, and then collect the items: 

```
// Java
List<Integer> numbers =List.of(1,2,3,4,5,6);
String invertedOddNumbers = numbers
.stream()
.filter(it /> it %2/=0)
.map(it />-it)
.map(Object/:toString)
.collect(Collectors.joining("; "));
System.out.println(invertedOddNumbers);
```

In Kotlin, use the joinToString() function, which Kotlin defines for every List: 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val numbers =listOf(1,2,3,4,5,6)
val invertedOddNumbers = numbers
.filter{ it %2/=0}
.joinToString(separator =";"){"${-it}"}
println(invertedOddNumbers)
}
```

In Java, if you want spaces between your delimiters and following items, you need to add a space to the delimiter explicitly. 

Learn more about joinToString() usage. 

885 

## **Set default value if the string is blank** 

In Java, you can use the ternary operator: 

```
// Java
publicvoiddefaultValueIfStringIsBlank(){
String nameValue =getName();
String name = nameValue.isBlank()?"John Doe": nameValue;
System.out.println(name);
}
publicStringgetName(){
Random rand =newRandom();
return rand.nextBoolean()?"":"David";
}
```

Kotlin provides the inline function ifBlank() that accepts the default value as an argument: 

```
// Kotlin
import kotlin.random.Random
funmain(){
val name =getName().ifBlank{"John Doe"}
println(name)
}
fungetName(): String =
if(Random.nextBoolean())""else"David"
```

## **Replace characters at the beginning and end of a string** 

In Java, you can use the replaceAll() function. The `replaceAll()` function in this case accepts regular expressions `^##` and `##$` , which define strings starting and ending with `##` respectively: 

```
// Java
String input ="/#place/#holder/#";
String result = input.replaceAll("^/#|/#$","");
System.out.println(result);
```

In Kotlin, use the removeSurrounding() function with the string delimiter `##` : 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val input ="/#place/#holder/#"
val result = input.removeSurrounding("/#")
println(result)
}
```

## **Replace occurrences** 

In Java, you can use the Pattern and the Matcher classes, for example, to obfuscate some data: 

886 

```
// Java
String input ="login: Pokemon5, password: 1q2w3e4r5t";
Pattern pattern =Pattern.compile("\\w*\\d+\\w*");
Matcher matcher = pattern.matcher(input);
String replacementResult = matcher.replaceAll(it />"xxx");
System.out.println("Initial input: '"+ input +"'");
System.out.println("Anonymized input: '"+ replacementResult +"'");
```

In Kotlin, you use the Regex class that simplifies working with regular expressions. Additionally, use multiline strings to simplify a regex pattern by reducing the count of backslashes: 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val regex =Regex("""\w*\d+\w*""")// multiline string
val input ="login: Pokemon5, password: 1q2w3e4r5t"
val replacementResult = regex.replace(input, replacement ="xxx")
println("Initial input: '$input'")
println("Anonymized input: '$replacementResult'")
}
```

## **Split a string** 

In Java, to split a string with the period character ( `.` ), you need to use shielding ( `\\` ). This happens because the split() function of the `String` class accepts a regular expression as an argument: 

```
// Java
System.out.println(Arrays.toString("Sometimes.text.should.be.split".split("\\.")));
```

In Kotlin, use the Kotlin function split(), which accepts varargs of delimiters as input parameters: 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
println("Sometimes.text.should.be.split".split("."))
}
```

If you need to split with a regular expression, use the overloaded `split()` version that accepts the `Regex` as a parameter. 

## **Take a substring** 

In Java, you can use the substring() function, which accepts an inclusive beginning index of a character to start taking the substring from. To take a substring after this character, you need to increment the index: 

```
// Java
String input ="What is the answer to the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything?
42";
String answer = input.substring(input.indexOf("?")+1);
System.out.println(answer);
```

In Kotlin, you use the substringAfter() function and don't need to calculate the index of the character you want to take a substring after: 

887 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val input ="What is the answer to the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything?
42"
val answer = input.substringAfter("?")
println(answer)
}
```

Additionally, you can take a substring after the last occurrence of a character: 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val input ="To be, or not to be, that is the question."
val question = input.substringAfterLast(",")
println(question)
}
```

## **Use multiline strings** 

Before Java 15, there were several ways to create a multiline string. For example, using the join() function of the `String` class: 

```
// Java
String lineSeparator =System.getProperty("line.separator");
String result =String.join(lineSeparator,
"Kotlin",
"Java");
System.out.println(result);
```

In Java 15, text blocks appeared. There is one thing to keep in mind: if you print a multiline string and the triplequote is on the next line, there will be an extra empty line: 

```
// Java
String result ="""
    Kotlin
       Java
    """;
System.out.println(result);
```

The output: 

**==> picture [524 x 83] intentionally omitted <==**

Java 15 multiline output 

If you put the triple-quote on the same line as the last word, this difference in behavior disappears. 

In Kotlin, you can format your line with the quotes on the new line, and there will be no extra empty line in the output. The left-most character of any line identifies the beginning of the line. The difference with Java is that Java automatically trims indents, and in Kotlin you should do it explicitly: 

888 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val result ="""
        Kotlin
           Java
    """.trimIndent()
println(result)
}
```

The output: 

**==> picture [524 x 71] intentionally omitted <==**

Kotlin multiline output 

To have an extra empty line, you should add this empty line to your multiline string explicitly. 

In Kotlin, you can also use the trimMargin() function to customize the indents: 

```
// Kotlin
funmain(){
val result ="""
       #  Kotlin
       #  Java
   """.trimMargin("#")
println(result)
}
```

Learn more about multiline strings. 

## **What's next?** 

- Look through other Kotlin idioms. 

- Learn how to convert existing Java code to Kotlin with the Java to Kotlin converter. 

If you have a favorite idiom, we invite you to share it by sending a pull request. 

## **Collections in Java and Kotlin** 

Collections are groups of a variable number of items (possibly zero) that are significant to the problem being solved and are commonly operated on. This guide explains and compares collection concepts and operations in Java and Kotlin. It will help you migrate from Java to Kotlin and write your code in the authentically Kotlin way. 

The first part of this guide contains a quick glossary of operations on the same collections in Java and Kotlin. It is divided into operations that are the same and operations that exist only in Kotlin. The second part of the guide, starting from Mutability, explains some of the differences by looking at specific cases. 

For an introduction to collections, see the Collections overview or watch this video by Sebastian Aigner, Kotlin Developer Advocate. 

889 

All of the examples below use Java and Kotlin standard library APIs only. 

## **Operations that are the same in Java and Kotlin** 

In Kotlin, there are many operations on collections that look exactly the same as their counterparts in Java. 

## **Operations on lists, sets, queues, and deques** 

**==> picture [525 x 542] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
|||||||||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Description|Common|More Kotlin alternatives|
|operations|
|Add an element or elements|add()|,|addAll()|Use the|plusAssign|(|+=|) operator:|collection +=|
|element|,|collection += anotherCollection|.|
|Check whether a collection|contains()|,|Use the|in|keyword|to call|contains()|in the|
|contains an element or elements|containsAll()|operator form:|element in collection|.|
|Check whether a collection is|isEmpty()|Use|isNotEmpty()|to check whether a collection is|
|empty|not empty.|
|Remove under a certain condition|removeIf()|
|Leave only selected elements|retainAll()|
|Remove all elements from a|clear()|
|collection|
|Get a stream from a collection|stream()|Kotlin has its own way to process streams:|sequences|
|and methods like|map()|and|filter()|.|
|Get an iterator from a collection|iterator()|
|Operations on maps|
|Description|Common|More Kotlin alternatives|
|operations|
|Add an element or|put()|,|In Kotlin, the assignment|map[key] = value|behaves the same|
|elements|putAll()|,|as|put(key, value)|. Also, you may use the|plusAssign|(|+=|)|
|putIfAbsent()|operator:|map += Pair(key, value)|or|map += anotherMap|.|

**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


890 

Common operations 

Description 

More Kotlin alternatives 

**==> picture [499 x 372] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
|||||||||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Replace an element or|put()|,|Use the indexing operator|map[key] = value|instead of|
|elements|replace()|,|put()|and|replace()|.|
|replaceAll()|
|Get an element|get()|Use the indexing operator to get an element:|map[index]|.|
|Check whether a map|containsKey()|,|Use the|in|keyword|to call|contains()|in the operator form:|
|contains an element or|containsValue(|element in map|.|
|elements|)|
|Check whether a map is|isEmpty()|Use|isNotEmpty()|to check whether a map is not empty.|
|empty|
|Remove an element|remove(key)|,|Use the|minusAssign|(|-=|) operator:|map -= key|.|
|remove(key,|
|value)|
|Remove all elements|clear()|
|from a map|
|Get a stream from a|stream()|on|
|map|entries, keys, or|
|values|

**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


## **Operations that exist only for lists** 

**==> picture [524 x 232] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
|||||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Description|Common operations|More Kotlin alternatives|
|Get an index of an element|indexOf()|
|Get the last index of an|lastIndexOf()|
|element|
|Get an element|get()|Use the indexing operator to get an element:|
|list[index]|.|
|Take a sublist|subList()|
|Replace an element or|set()|,|Use the indexing operator instead of|set()|:|
|elements|replaceAll()|list[index] = value|.|

**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


891 

## **Operations that differ a bit** 

## **Operations on any collection type** 

**==> picture [524 x 617] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
||||||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Description|Java|Kotlin|
|Get a collection's size|size()|count()|,|
|size|
|Get flat access to nested collection|collectionOfCollections.forEach(flatCollect|flatten()|
|elements|ion::addAll)|or|or|
|collectionOfCollections.stream().flatMap().|flatMap()|
|collect()|
|Apply the given function to every element|stream().map().collect()|map()|
|Apply the provided operation to collection|stream().reduce()|reduce()|,|
|elements sequentially and return the|fold()|
|accumulated result|
|Group elements by a classifier and count|stream().collect(Collectors.groupingBy(clas|eachCount()|
|them|sifier, counting()))|
|Filter by a condition|stream().filter().collect()|filter()|
|Check whether collection elements satisfy a|stream().noneMatch()|,|stream().anyMatch()|,|none()|,|
|condition|stream().allMatch()|any()|,|
|all()|
|Sort elements|stream().sorted().collect()|sorted()|
|Take the first N elements|stream().limit(N).collect()|take(N)|
|Take elements with a predicate|stream().takeWhile().collect()|takeWhile()|
|Skip the first N elements|stream().skip(N).collect()|drop(N)|
|Skip elements with a predicate|stream().dropWhile().collect()|dropWhile()|
|Build maps from collection elements and|stream().collect(toMap(keyMapper,|associate()|
|certain values associated with them|valueMapper))|

**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


To perform all of the operations listed above on maps, you first need to get an `entrySet` of a map. 

892 

Description 

Java 

Kotlin 

## **Operations on lists** 

Sort a list into natural order `sort(null) sort()` Sort a list into descending order `sort(comparator) sortDescending()` Remove an element from a list `remove(index)` , `removeAt(index)` , `remove(element)` or `remove(element) collection -= element` Fill all elements of a list with a `Collections.fill() fill()` certain value Get unique elements from a list `stream().distinct().toL distinct() ist()` 

## **Operations that don't exist in Java's standard library** 

- `zip()` , `unzip()` – transform a collection. 

- 

   - `aggregate()` – group by a condition. 

- `takeLast()` , `takeLastWhile()` , `dropLast()` , `dropLastWhile()` – take or drop elements by a predicate. 

- 

   - `slice()` , `chunked()` , `windowed()` – retrieve collection parts. 

- 

- Plus ( `+` ) and minus ( `-` ) operators – add or remove elements. 

If you want to take a deep dive into `zip()` , `chunked()` , `windowed()` , and some other operations, watch this video by Sebastian Aigner about advanced collection operations in Kotlin: 

**Watch video online.** 

## **Mutability** 

In Java, there are mutable collections: 

```
// Java
// This list is mutable!
publicList<Customer>getCustomers(){//.}
```

Partially mutable ones: 

```
// Java
List<String> numbers =Arrays.asList("one","two","three","four");
numbers.add("five");// Fails in runtime with `UnsupportedOperationException`
```

And immutable ones: 

893 

```
// Java
List<String> numbers =newLinkedList/>();
// This list is immutable!
List<String> immutableCollection =Collections.unmodifiableList(numbers);
immutableCollection.add("five");// Fails in runtime with `UnsupportedOperationException`
```

If you write the last two pieces of code in IntelliJ IDEA, the IDE will warn you that you're trying to modify an immutable object. This code will compile and fail in runtime with `UnsupportedOperationException` . You can't tell whether a collection is mutable by looking at its type. 

Unlike in Java, in Kotlin you explicitly declare mutable or read-only collections depending on your needs. If you try to modify a read-only collection, the code won't compile: 

```
// Kotlin
val numbers =mutableListOf("one","two","three","four")
numbers.add("five")// This is OK
val immutableNumbers =listOf("one","two")
//immutableNumbers.add("five") // Compilation error - Unresolved reference: add
```

Read more about immutability on the Kotlin coding conventions page. 

## **Covariance** 

In Java, you can't pass a collection with a descendant type to a function that takes a collection of the ancestor type. For example, if `Rectangle` extends `Shape` , you can't pass a collection of `Rectangle` elements to a function that takes a collection of `Shape` elements. To make the code compilable, use the `? extends Shape` type so the function can take collections with any inheritors of `Shape` : 

```
// Java
classShape{}
classRectangleextendsShape{}
publicvoiddoSthWithShapes(List<?extendsShape> shapes){
/* If using just List<Shape>, the code won't compile when calling
this function with the List<Rectangle> as the argument as below //
}
publicvoidmain(){
var rectangles =List.of(newRectangle(),newRectangle());
doSthWithShapes(rectangles);
}
```

In Kotlin, read-only collection types are covariant. This means that if a `Rectangle` class inherits from the `Shape` class, you can use the type `List<Rectangle>` anywhere the `List<Shape>` type is required. In other words, the collection types have the same subtyping relationship as the element types. Maps are covariant on the value type, but not on the key type. Mutable collections aren't covariant – this would lead to runtime failures. 

894 

```
// Kotlin
openclassShape(val name: String)
classRectangle(privateval rectangleName: String):Shape(rectangleName)
fundoSthWithShapes(shapes: List<Shape>){
println("The shapes are: ${shapes.joinToString{ it.name }}")
}
funmain(){
val rectangles =listOf(Rectangle("rhombus"),Rectangle("parallelepiped"))
doSthWithShapes(rectangles)
}
```

Read more about collection types here. 

## **Ranges and progressions** 

In Kotlin, you can create intervals using ranges. For example, `Version(1, 11)..Version(1, 30)` includes all of the versions from `1.11` to `1.30` . You can check that your version is in the range by using the `in` operator: `Version(0, 9) in versionRange` . 

In Java, you need to manually check whether a `Version` fits both bounds: 

```
// Java
classVersionimplementsComparable<Version>{
int major;
int minor;
Version(int major,int minor){
this.major = major;
this.minor = minor;
}
@Override
publicintcompareTo(Version o){
if(this.major /= o.major){
returnthis.major - o.major;
}
returnthis.minor - o.minor;
}
}
publicvoidcompareVersions(){
var minVersion =newVersion(1,11);
var maxVersion =newVersion(1,31);
System.out.println(
versionIsInRange(newVersion(0,9), minVersion, maxVersion));
System.out.println(
versionIsInRange(newVersion(1,20), minVersion, maxVersion));
}
publicBooleanversionIsInRange(Version versionToCheck,Version minVersion,
Version maxVersion){
return versionToCheck.compareTo(minVersion)/=0
/& versionToCheck.compareTo(maxVersion)/=0;
}
```

895 

In Kotlin, you operate with a range as a whole object. You don't need to create two variables and compare a `Version` with them: 

```
// Kotlin
classVersion(val major: Int,val minor: Int): Comparable<Version>{
overridefuncompareTo(other: Version): Int {
if(this.major /= other.major){
returnthis.major - other.major
}
returnthis.minor - other.minor
}
}
funmain(){
val versionRange =Version(1,11)/.Version(1,30)
println(Version(0,9)in versionRange)
println(Version(1,20)in versionRange)
}
```

As soon as you need to exclude one of the bounds, like to check whether a version is greater than or equal to ( `>=` ) the minimum version and less than ( `<` ) the maximum version, these inclusive ranges won't help. 

## **Comparison by several criteria** 

In Java, to compare objects by several criteria, you may use the `comparing()` and `thenComparingX()` functions from the `Comparator` interface. For example, to compare people by their name and age: 

```
classPersonimplementsComparable<Person>{
String name;
int age;
publicStringgetName(){
return name;
}
publicintgetAge(){
return age;
}
Person(String name,int age){
this.name = name;
this.age = age;
}
@Override
publicStringtoString(){
returnthis.name +" "+ age;
}
}
publicvoidcomparePersons(){
var persons =List.of(newPerson("Jack",35),newPerson("David",30),
newPerson("Jack",25));
System.out.println(persons.stream().sorted(Comparator
.comparing(Person/:getName)
.thenComparingInt(Person/:getAge)).collect(toList()));
}
```

896 

In Kotlin, you just enumerate which fields you want to compare: 

```
dataclassPerson(
val name: String,
val age: Int
)
funmain(){
val persons =listOf(Person("Jack",35),Person("David",30),
Person("Jack",25))
println(persons.sortedWith(compareBy(Person/:name, Person/:age)))
}
```

## **Sequences** 

In Java, you can generate a sequence of numbers this way: 

```
// Java
int sum =IntStream.iterate(1, e /> e +3)
.limit(10).sum();
System.out.println(sum);// Prints 145
```

In Kotlin, use sequences. Multi-step processing of sequences is executed lazily when possible – actual computing happens only when the result of the whole processing chain is requested. 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val sum =generateSequence(1){
        it +3
}.take(10).sum()
println(sum)// Prints 145
}
```

Sequences may reduce the number of steps that are needed to perform some filtering operations. See the sequence processing example, which shows the difference between `Iterable` and `Sequence` . 

## **Removal of elements from a list** 

In Java, the `remove()` function accepts an index of an element to remove. 

When removing an integer element, use the `Integer.valueOf()` function as the argument for the `remove()` function: 

```
// Java
publicvoidremove(){
var numbers =newArrayList/>();
    numbers.add(1);
    numbers.add(2);
    numbers.add(3);
    numbers.add(1);
    numbers.remove(1);// This removes by index
System.out.println(numbers);// [1, 3, 1]
    numbers.remove(Integer.valueOf(1));
System.out.println(numbers);// [3, 1]
}
```

897 

In Kotlin, there are two types of element removal: by index with `removeAt()` and by value with `remove()` . 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val numbers =mutableListOf(1,2,3,1)
    numbers.removeAt(0)
println(numbers)// [2, 3, 1]
    numbers.remove(1)
println(numbers)// [2, 3]
}
```

## **Traverse a map** 

In Java, you can traverse a map via `forEach` : 

```
// Java
numbers.forEach((k,v)/>System.out.println("Key = "+ k +", Value = "+ v));
```

In Kotlin, use a `for` loop or a `forEach` , similar to Java's `forEach` , to traverse a map: 

```
// Kotlin
for((k, v)in numbers){
println("Key = $k, Value = $v")
}
// Or
numbers.forEach{(k, v)/>println("Key = $k, Value = $v")}
```

## **Get the first and the last items of a possibly empty collection** 

In Java, you can safely get the first and the last items by checking the size of the collection and using indices: 

```
// Java
var list =newArrayList/>();
////.
if(list.size()>0){
System.out.println(list.get(0));
System.out.println(list.get(list.size()-1));
}
```

You can also use the `getFirst()` and `getLast()` functions for `Deque` and its inheritors: 

```
// Java
var deque =newArrayDeque/>();
////.
if(deque.size()>0){
System.out.println(deque.getFirst());
System.out.println(deque.getLast());
}
```

In Kotlin, there are the special functions `firstOrNull()` and `lastOrNull()` . Using the `Elvis operator` , you can perform further actions right away depending on the result of a function. For example, `firstOrNull()` : 

898 

```
// Kotlin
val emails = listOf<String>()// Might be empty
val theOldestEmail = emails.firstOrNull()/:""
val theFreshestEmail = emails.lastOrNull()/:""
```

## **Create a set from a list** 

In Java, to create a `Set` from a `List` , you can use the `Set.copyOf` function: 

```
// Java
publicvoidlistToSet(){
var sourceList =List.of(1,2,3,1);
var copySet =Set.copyOf(sourceList);
System.out.println(copySet);
}
```

In Kotlin, use the function `toSet()` : 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val sourceList =listOf(1,2,3,1)
val copySet = sourceList.toSet()
println(copySet)
}
```

## **Group elements** 

In Java, you can group elements with the Collectors function `groupingBy()` : 

```
// Java
publicvoidanalyzeLogs(){
var requests =List.of(
newRequest("https://kotlinlang.org/docs/home.html",200),
newRequest("https://kotlinlang.org/docs/home.html",400),
newRequest("https://kotlinlang.org/docs/comparison-to-java.html",200)
);
var urlsAndRequests = requests.stream().collect(
Collectors.groupingBy(Request/:getUrl));
System.out.println(urlsAndRequests);
}
```

In Kotlin, use the function `groupBy()` : 

899 

```
dataclassRequest(
val url: String,
val responseCode: Int
)
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val requests =listOf(
Request("https://kotlinlang.org/docs/home.html",200),
Request("https://kotlinlang.org/docs/home.html",400),
Request("https://kotlinlang.org/docs/comparison-to-java.html",200)
)
println(requests.groupBy(Request/:url))
}
```

## **Filter elements** 

In Java, to filter elements from a collection, you need to use the Stream API. The Stream API has `intermediate` and `terminal` operations. `filter()` is an intermediate operation, which returns a stream. To receive a collection as the output, you need to use a terminal operation, like `collect()` . For example, to leave only those pairs whose keys end with `1` and whose values are greater than `10` : 

```
// Java
publicvoidfilterEndsWith(){
var numbers =Map.of("key1",1,"key2",2,"key3",3,"key11",11);
var filteredNumbers = numbers.entrySet().stream()
.filter(entry /> entry.getKey().endsWith("1")/& entry.getValue()>10)
.collect(Collectors.toMap(Map.Entry/:getKey,Map.Entry/:getValue));
System.out.println(filteredNumbers);
}
```

In Kotlin, filtering is built into collections, and `filter()` returns the same collection type that was filtered. So, all you need to write is the `filter()` and its predicate: 

```
funmain(){
// Kotlin
val numbers =mapOf("key1"to1,"key2"to2,"key3"to3,"key11"to11)
val filteredNumbers = numbers.filter{(key, value)/> key.endsWith("1")/& value >10}
println(filteredNumbers)
}
```

Learn more about filtering maps here. 

## **Filter elements by type** 

In Java, to filter elements by type and perform actions on them, you need to check their types with the `instanceof` operator and then do the type cast: 

900 

