Module [java.sql](../../module-summary.md)

Package [java.sql](package-summary.md)

# Interface Savepoint

---

public interface Savepoint

The representation of a savepoint, which is a point within
the current transaction that can be referenced from the
`Connection.rollback` method. When a transaction
is rolled back to a savepoint all changes made after that
savepoint are undone.

Savepoints can be either named or unnamed. Unnamed savepoints
are identified by an ID generated by the underlying data source.

Since:
:   1.4

* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsAbstract Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `int`

  `getSavepointId()`

  Retrieves the generated ID for the savepoint that this
  `Savepoint` object represents.

  `String`

  `getSavepointName()`

  Retrieves the name of the savepoint that this `Savepoint`
  object represents.

* ## Method Details

  + ### getSavepointId

    int getSavepointId()
    throws [SQLException](SQLException.md "class in java.sql")

    Retrieves the generated ID for the savepoint that this
    `Savepoint` object represents.

    Returns:
    :   the numeric ID of this savepoint

    Throws:
    :   `SQLException` - if this is a named savepoint

    Since:
    :   1.4
  + ### getSavepointName

    [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") getSavepointName()
    throws [SQLException](SQLException.md "class in java.sql")

    Retrieves the name of the savepoint that this `Savepoint`
    object represents.

    Returns:
    :   the name of this savepoint

    Throws:
    :   `SQLException` - if this is an un-named savepoint

    Since:
    :   1.4