Module [java.base](../../../module-summary.md)

Package [javax.net.ssl](package-summary.md)

# Enum Class SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus

[java.lang.Object](../../../java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

[java.lang.Enum](../../../java/lang/Enum.md "class in java.lang")<[SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus](SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus.md "enum class in javax.net.ssl")>

javax.net.ssl.SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus

All Implemented Interfaces:
:   `Serializable`, `Comparable<SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus>`, `Constable`

Enclosing class:
:   `SSLEngineResult`

---

public static enum SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus
extends [Enum](../../../java/lang/Enum.md "class in java.lang")<[SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus](SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus.md "enum class in javax.net.ssl")>

An `SSLEngineResult` enum describing the current
handshaking state of this `SSLEngine`.

Since:
:   1.5

* ## Nested Class Summary

  ## Nested classes/interfaces inherited from class java.lang.[Enum](../../../java/lang/Enum.md "class in java.lang")

  `Enum.EnumDesc<E extends Enum<E>>`
* ## Enum Constant Summary

  Enum Constants

  Enum Constant

  Description

  `FINISHED`

  The `SSLEngine` has just finished handshaking.

  `NEED_TASK`

  The `SSLEngine` needs the results of one (or more)
  delegated tasks before handshaking can continue.

  `NEED_UNWRAP`

  The `SSLEngine` needs to receive data from the
  remote side before handshaking can continue.

  `NEED_UNWRAP_AGAIN`

  The `SSLEngine` needs to unwrap before handshaking can
  continue.

  `NEED_WRAP`

  The `SSLEngine` must send data to the remote side
  before handshaking can continue, so `SSLEngine.wrap()`
  should be called.

  `NOT_HANDSHAKING`

  The `SSLEngine` is not currently handshaking.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsStatic MethodsConcrete Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `static SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus`

  `valueOf(String name)`

  Returns the enum constant of this class with the specified name.

  `static SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus[]`

  `values()`

  Returns an array containing the constants of this enum class, in
  the order they are declared.

  ### Methods inherited from class java.lang.[Enum](../../../java/lang/Enum.md "class in java.lang")

  `clone, compareTo, describeConstable, equals, finalize, getDeclaringClass, hashCode, name, ordinal, toString, valueOf`

  ### Methods inherited from class java.lang.[Object](../../../java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `getClass, notify, notifyAll, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Enum Constant Details

  + ### NOT\_HANDSHAKING

    public static final [SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus](SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus.md "enum class in javax.net.ssl") NOT\_HANDSHAKING

    The `SSLEngine` is not currently handshaking.
  + ### FINISHED

    public static final [SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus](SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus.md "enum class in javax.net.ssl") FINISHED

    The `SSLEngine` has just finished handshaking.

    This value is only generated by a call to
    `SSLEngine.wrap()/unwrap()` when that call
    finishes a handshake. It is never generated by
    `SSLEngine.getHandshakeStatus()`.

    See Also:
    :   - [`SSLEngine.wrap(ByteBuffer, ByteBuffer)`](SSLEngine.md#wrap(java.nio.ByteBuffer,java.nio.ByteBuffer))
        - [`SSLEngine.unwrap(ByteBuffer, ByteBuffer)`](SSLEngine.md#unwrap(java.nio.ByteBuffer,java.nio.ByteBuffer))
        - [`SSLEngine.getHandshakeStatus()`](SSLEngine.md#getHandshakeStatus())
  + ### NEED\_TASK

    public static final [SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus](SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus.md "enum class in javax.net.ssl") NEED\_TASK

    The `SSLEngine` needs the results of one (or more)
    delegated tasks before handshaking can continue.

    See Also:
    :   - [`SSLEngine.getDelegatedTask()`](SSLEngine.md#getDelegatedTask())
  + ### NEED\_WRAP

    public static final [SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus](SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus.md "enum class in javax.net.ssl") NEED\_WRAP

    The `SSLEngine` must send data to the remote side
    before handshaking can continue, so `SSLEngine.wrap()`
    should be called.

    See Also:
    :   - [`SSLEngine.wrap(ByteBuffer, ByteBuffer)`](SSLEngine.md#wrap(java.nio.ByteBuffer,java.nio.ByteBuffer))
  + ### NEED\_UNWRAP

    public static final [SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus](SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus.md "enum class in javax.net.ssl") NEED\_UNWRAP

    The `SSLEngine` needs to receive data from the
    remote side before handshaking can continue.
  + ### NEED\_UNWRAP\_AGAIN

    public static final [SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus](SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus.md "enum class in javax.net.ssl") NEED\_UNWRAP\_AGAIN

    The `SSLEngine` needs to unwrap before handshaking can
    continue.

    This value is used to indicate that not-yet-interpreted data
    has been previously received from the remote side, and does
    not need to be received again.

    This handshake status only applies to DTLS.

    Since:
    :   9
* ## Method Details

  + ### values

    public static [SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus](SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus.md "enum class in javax.net.ssl")[] values()

    Returns an array containing the constants of this enum class, in
    the order they are declared.

    Returns:
    :   an array containing the constants of this enum class, in the order they are declared
  + ### valueOf

    public static [SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus](SSLEngineResult.HandshakeStatus.md "enum class in javax.net.ssl") valueOf([String](../../../java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") name)

    Returns the enum constant of this class with the specified name.
    The string must match *exactly* an identifier used to declare an
    enum constant in this class. (Extraneous whitespace characters are
    not permitted.)

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the enum constant to be returned.

    Returns:
    :   the enum constant with the specified name

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if this enum class has no constant with the specified name
    :   `NullPointerException` - if the argument is null