Module [java.compiler](../../../module-summary.md)

Package [javax.annotation.processing](package-summary.md)

# Interface Filer

---

public interface Filer

This interface supports the creation of new files by an annotation
processor. Files created in this way will be known to the
annotation processing tool implementing this interface, better
enabling the tool to manage them. Source and class files so
created will be [considered for processing](RoundEnvironment.md#getRootElements()) by the tool in a subsequent [round of processing](RoundEnvironment.md "interface in javax.annotation.processing") after the `close`
method has been called on the `Writer` or `OutputStream` used to write the contents of the file.
Three kinds of files are distinguished: source files, class files,
and auxiliary resource files.

There are two distinguished supported locations (subtrees
within the logical file system) where newly created files are
placed: one for [new source files](../../tools/StandardLocation.md#SOURCE_OUTPUT), and
one for [new
class files](../../tools/StandardLocation.md#CLASS_OUTPUT). (These might be specified on a tool's command line,
for example, using flags such as `-s` and `-d`.) The
actual locations for new source files and new class files may or
may not be distinct on a particular run of the tool. Resource
files may be created in either location. The methods for reading
and writing resources take a relative name argument. A relative
name is a non-null, non-empty sequence of path segments separated
by `'/'`; `'.'` and `'..'` are invalid path
segments. A valid relative name must match the
"path-rootless" rule of [RFC 3986](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986.txt), section
3.3.

The file creation methods take a variable number of arguments to
allow the *originating elements* to be provided as hints to
the tool infrastructure to better manage dependencies. The
originating elements are the classes or interfaces or packages
(representing `package-info` files) or modules (representing
`module-info` files) which caused an annotation processor to
attempt to create a new file.
In other words, the originating elements are intended to have the
granularity of *compilation units* (JLS section ),
essentially file-level granularity, rather than finer-scale
granularity of, say, a method or field declaration.

For example, if an annotation
processor tries to create a source file, `GeneratedFromUserSource`, in response to processing
> ```
>   @Generate
>   public class UserSource {}
> ```

the type element for `UserSource` should be passed as part of
the creation method call as in:
> ```
>       filer.createSourceFile("GeneratedFromUserSource",
>                              eltUtils.getTypeElement("UserSource"));
> ```

If there are no originating elements, none need to be passed. This
information may be used in an incremental environment to determine
the need to rerun processors or remove generated files.
Non-incremental environments may ignore the originating element
information.

During each run of an annotation processing tool, a file with a
given pathname may be created only once. If that file already
exists before the first attempt to create it, the old contents will
be deleted. Any subsequent attempt to create the same file during
a run will throw a [`FilerException`](FilerException.md "class in javax.annotation.processing"), as will attempting to
create both a class file and source file for the same type name or
same package name. The [initial inputs](Processor.md "interface in javax.annotation.processing") to
the tool are considered to be created by the zeroth round;
therefore, attempting to create a source or class file
corresponding to one of those inputs will result in a [`FilerException`](FilerException.md "class in javax.annotation.processing").

In general, processors must not knowingly attempt to overwrite
existing files that were not generated by some processor. A `Filer` may reject attempts to open a file corresponding to an
existing class or interface, like `java.lang.Object`. Likewise, the
invoker of the annotation processing tool must not knowingly
configure the tool such that the discovered processors will attempt
to overwrite existing files that were not generated.

Processors can indicate a source or class file is generated by
including a [`Generated`](Generated.md "annotation interface in javax.annotation.processing")
annotation if the environment is configured so that that class or
interface is accessible.

Since:
:   1.6

External Specifications
:   * [RFC 3986: Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986)

* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsAbstract Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `JavaFileObject`

  `createClassFile(CharSequence name,
  Element... originatingElements)`

  Creates a new class file, and returns an object to allow
  writing to it.

  `FileObject`

  `createResource(JavaFileManager.Location location,
  CharSequence moduleAndPkg,
  CharSequence relativeName,
  Element... originatingElements)`

  Creates a new auxiliary resource file for writing and returns a
  file object for it.

  `JavaFileObject`

  `createSourceFile(CharSequence name,
  Element... originatingElements)`

  Creates a new source file and returns an object to allow
  writing to it.

  `FileObject`

  `getResource(JavaFileManager.Location location,
  CharSequence moduleAndPkg,
  CharSequence relativeName)`

  Returns an object for reading an existing resource.

* ## Method Details

  + ### createSourceFile

    [JavaFileObject](../../tools/JavaFileObject.md "interface in javax.tools") createSourceFile([CharSequence](../../../../java.base/java/lang/CharSequence.md "interface in java.lang") name,
    [Element](../../lang/model/element/Element.md "interface in javax.lang.model.element")... originatingElements)
    throws [IOException](../../../../java.base/java/io/IOException.md "class in java.io")

    Creates a new source file and returns an object to allow
    writing to it. A source file for a class, interface, or a
    package can be created.
    The file's name and path (relative to the [root output location for source
    files](../../tools/StandardLocation.md#SOURCE_OUTPUT)) are based on the name of the item to be declared in
    that file as well as the specified module for the item (if
    any).
    If more than one class or interface is being declared in a single file (that
    is, a single compilation unit), the name of the file should
    correspond to the name of the principal top-level class or interface (the
    public one, for example).

    A source file can also be created to hold information about
    a package, including package annotations. To create a source
    file for a named package, have the `name` argument be the
    package's name followed by `".package-info"`; to create a
    source file for an unnamed package, use `"package-info"`.

    The optional module name is prefixed to the type name or
    package name and separated using a "`/`" character. For
    example, to create a source file for class `a.B` in module
    `foo`, use a `name` argument of `"foo/a.B"`.

    If no explicit module prefix is given and modules are supported
    in the environment, a suitable module is inferred. If a suitable
    module cannot be inferred [`FilerException`](FilerException.md "class in javax.annotation.processing") is thrown.
    An implementation may use information about the configuration of
    the annotation processing tool as part of the inference.

    Creating a source file in or for an *unnamed* package in a *named*
    module is *not* supported.

    If the environment is configured to support [unnamed classes](../../lang/model/element/TypeElement.md#isUnnamed())[PREVIEW](../../lang/model/element/TypeElement.md#preview-isUnnamed()), the name argument is
    used to provide the leading component of the name used for the
    output file. For example `filer.createSourceFile("Foo")`
    to create an unnamed class hosted in `Foo.java`. All
    unnamed classes must be in an unnamed package.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - canonical (fully qualified) name of the principal class or interface
        being declared in this file or a package name followed by
        `".package-info"` for a package information file
    :   `originatingElements` - class, interface, package, or module
        elements causally associated with the creation of this file,
        may be elided or `null`

    Returns:
    :   a `JavaFileObject` to write the new source file

    Throws:
    :   `FilerException` - if the same pathname has already been
        created, the same class or interface has already been created, the name is
        otherwise not valid for the entity requested to being created,
        if the target module cannot be determined, if the target
        module is not writable, or a module is specified when the environment
        doesn't support modules.
    :   `IOException` - if the file cannot be created
  + ### createClassFile

    [JavaFileObject](../../tools/JavaFileObject.md "interface in javax.tools") createClassFile([CharSequence](../../../../java.base/java/lang/CharSequence.md "interface in java.lang") name,
    [Element](../../lang/model/element/Element.md "interface in javax.lang.model.element")... originatingElements)
    throws [IOException](../../../../java.base/java/io/IOException.md "class in java.io")

    Creates a new class file, and returns an object to allow
    writing to it. A class file for a class, interface, or a package can
    be created.
    The file's name and path (relative to the [root output location for class
    files](../../tools/StandardLocation.md#CLASS_OUTPUT)) are based on the name of the item to be declared as
    well as the specified module for the item (if any).

    A class file can also be created to hold information about a
    package, including package annotations. To create a class file
    for a named package, have the `name` argument be the
    package's name followed by `".package-info"`; creating a
    class file for an unnamed package is not supported.

    The optional module name is prefixed to the type name or
    package name and separated using a "`/`" character. For
    example, to create a class file for class `a.B` in module
    `foo`, use a `name` argument of `"foo/a.B"`.

    If no explicit module prefix is given and modules are supported
    in the environment, a suitable module is inferred. If a suitable
    module cannot be inferred [`FilerException`](FilerException.md "class in javax.annotation.processing") is thrown.
    An implementation may use information about the configuration of
    the annotation processing tool as part of the inference.

    Creating a class file in or for an *unnamed* package in a *named*
    module is *not* supported.

    If the environment is configured to support [unnamed classes](../../lang/model/element/TypeElement.md#isUnnamed())[PREVIEW](../../lang/model/element/TypeElement.md#preview-isUnnamed()), the name argument is
    used to provide the leading component of the name used for the
    output file. For example `filer.createClassFile("Foo")` to
    create an unnamed class hosted in `Foo.class`. All unnamed
    classes must be in an unnamed package.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - binary name of the class or interface being written
        or a package name followed by `".package-info"` for a
        package information file
    :   `originatingElements` - class or interface or package or
        module elements causally associated with the creation of this
        file, may be elided or `null`

    Returns:
    :   a `JavaFileObject` to write the new class file

    Throws:
    :   `FilerException` - if the same pathname has already been
        created, the same class or interface has already been created, the name is
        not valid for a class or interface, if the target module cannot be determined,
        if the target module is not writable, or a module is specified when
        the environment doesn't support modules.
    :   `IOException` - if the file cannot be created
  + ### createResource

    [FileObject](../../tools/FileObject.md "interface in javax.tools") createResource([JavaFileManager.Location](../../tools/JavaFileManager.Location.md "interface in javax.tools") location,
    [CharSequence](../../../../java.base/java/lang/CharSequence.md "interface in java.lang") moduleAndPkg,
    [CharSequence](../../../../java.base/java/lang/CharSequence.md "interface in java.lang") relativeName,
    [Element](../../lang/model/element/Element.md "interface in javax.lang.model.element")... originatingElements)
    throws [IOException](../../../../java.base/java/io/IOException.md "class in java.io")

    Creates a new auxiliary resource file for writing and returns a
    file object for it. The file may be located along with the
    newly created source files, newly created binary files, or
    other supported location. The locations [`CLASS_OUTPUT`](../../tools/StandardLocation.md#CLASS_OUTPUT) and [`SOURCE_OUTPUT`](../../tools/StandardLocation.md#SOURCE_OUTPUT) must be
    supported. The resource may be named relative to some module
    and/or package (as are source and class files), and from there
    by a relative pathname. In a loose sense, the full pathname of
    the new file will be the concatenation of `location`,
    `moduleAndPkg`, and `relativeName`.
    If `moduleAndPkg` contains a "`/`" character, the
    prefix before the "`/`" character is the module name and
    the suffix after the "`/`" character is the package
    name. The package suffix may be empty. If `moduleAndPkg`
    does not contain a "`/`" character, the entire argument
    is interpreted as a package name.

    If the given location is neither a [module oriented location](../../tools/JavaFileManager.Location.md#isModuleOrientedLocation()), nor an [output location containing multiple modules](../../tools/JavaFileManager.Location.md#isOutputLocation()), and the explicit
    module prefix is given, [`FilerException`](FilerException.md "class in javax.annotation.processing") is thrown.

    If the given location is either a module oriented location,
    or an output location containing multiple modules, and no explicit
    modules prefix is given, a suitable module is
    inferred. If a suitable module cannot be inferred [`FilerException`](FilerException.md "class in javax.annotation.processing") is thrown. An implementation may use information
    about the configuration of the annotation processing tool
    as part of the inference.

    Files created via this method are *not* registered for
    annotation processing, even if the full pathname of the file
    would correspond to the full pathname of a new source file
    or new class file.

    Parameters:
    :   `location` - location of the new file
    :   `moduleAndPkg` - module and/or package relative to which the file
        should be named, or the empty string if none
    :   `relativeName` - final pathname components of the file
    :   `originatingElements` - class or interface or package or
        module elements causally associated with the creation of this
        file, may be elided or
        `null`

    Returns:
    :   a `FileObject` to write the new resource

    Throws:
    :   `IOException` - if the file cannot be created
    :   `FilerException` - if the same pathname has already been
        created, if the target module cannot be determined,
        or if the target module is not writable, or if an explicit
        target module is specified and the location does not support it.
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - for an unsupported location
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `moduleAndPkg` is ill-formed
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `relativeName` is not relative
  + ### getResource

    [FileObject](../../tools/FileObject.md "interface in javax.tools") getResource([JavaFileManager.Location](../../tools/JavaFileManager.Location.md "interface in javax.tools") location,
    [CharSequence](../../../../java.base/java/lang/CharSequence.md "interface in java.lang") moduleAndPkg,
    [CharSequence](../../../../java.base/java/lang/CharSequence.md "interface in java.lang") relativeName)
    throws [IOException](../../../../java.base/java/io/IOException.md "class in java.io")

    Returns an object for reading an existing resource. The
    locations [`CLASS_OUTPUT`](../../tools/StandardLocation.md#CLASS_OUTPUT)
    and [`SOURCE_OUTPUT`](../../tools/StandardLocation.md#SOURCE_OUTPUT) must
    be supported.

    If `moduleAndPkg` contains a "`/`" character, the
    prefix before the "`/`" character is the module name and
    the suffix after the "`/`" character is the package
    name. The package suffix may be empty; however, if a module
    name is present, it must be nonempty. If `moduleAndPkg`
    does not contain a "`/`" character, the entire argument
    is interpreted as a package name.

    If the given location is neither a [module oriented location](../../tools/JavaFileManager.Location.md#isModuleOrientedLocation()), nor an [output location containing multiple modules](../../tools/JavaFileManager.Location.md#isOutputLocation()), and the explicit
    module prefix is given, [`FilerException`](FilerException.md "class in javax.annotation.processing") is thrown.

    If the given location is either a module oriented location,
    or an output location containing multiple modules, and no explicit
    modules prefix is given, a suitable module is
    inferred. If a suitable module cannot be inferred [`FilerException`](FilerException.md "class in javax.annotation.processing") is thrown. An implementation may use information
    about the configuration of the annotation processing tool
    as part of the inference.

    Parameters:
    :   `location` - location of the file
    :   `moduleAndPkg` - module and/or package relative to which the file
        should be searched for, or the empty string if none
    :   `relativeName` - final pathname components of the file

    Returns:
    :   an object to read the file

    Throws:
    :   `FilerException` - if the same pathname has already been
        opened for writing, if the source module cannot be determined,
        or if the target module is not writable, or if an explicit target
        module is specified and the location does not support it.
    :   `IOException` - if the file cannot be opened
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - for an unsupported location
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `moduleAndPkg` is ill-formed
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `relativeName` is not relative