Module [java.desktop](../../module-summary.md)

Package [java.awt](package-summary.md)

# Class Button

[java.lang.Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

[java.awt.Component](Component.md "class in java.awt")

java.awt.Button

All Implemented Interfaces:
:   `ImageObserver`, `MenuContainer`, `Serializable`, `Accessible`

---

public class Button
extends [Component](Component.md "class in java.awt")
implements [Accessible](../../javax/accessibility/Accessible.md "interface in javax.accessibility")

This class creates a labeled button. The application can cause
some action to happen when the button is pushed. This image
depicts three views of a "`Quit`" button as it appears
under the Solaris operating system:

![The following context describes the
 graphic](doc-files/Button-1.gif)

The first view shows the button as it appears normally.
The second view shows the button
when it has input focus. Its outline is darkened to let the
user know that it is an active object. The third view shows the
button when the user clicks the mouse over the button, and thus
requests that an action be performed.

The gesture of clicking on a button with the mouse
is associated with one instance of `ActionEvent`,
which is sent out when the mouse is both pressed and released
over the button. If an application is interested in knowing
when the button has been pressed but not released, as a separate
gesture, it can specialize `processMouseEvent`,
or it can register itself as a listener for mouse events by
calling `addMouseListener`. Both of these methods are
defined by `Component`, the abstract superclass of
all components.

When a button is pressed and released, AWT sends an instance
of `ActionEvent` to the button, by calling
`processEvent` on the button. The button's
`processEvent` method receives all events
for the button; it passes an action event along by
calling its own `processActionEvent` method.
The latter method passes the action event on to any action
listeners that have registered an interest in action
events generated by this button.

If an application wants to perform some action based on
a button being pressed and released, it should implement
`ActionListener` and register the new listener
to receive events from this button, by calling the button's
`addActionListener` method. The application can
make use of the button's action command as a messaging protocol.

Since:
:   1.0

See Also:
:   * [`ActionEvent`](event/ActionEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")
    * [`ActionListener`](event/ActionListener.md "interface in java.awt.event")
    * [`Component.processMouseEvent(java.awt.event.MouseEvent)`](Component.md#processMouseEvent(java.awt.event.MouseEvent))
    * [`Component.addMouseListener(java.awt.event.MouseListener)`](Component.md#addMouseListener(java.awt.event.MouseListener))
    * [Serialized Form](../../../serialized-form.md#java.awt.Button)

* ## Nested Class Summary

  Nested Classes

  Modifier and Type

  Class

  Description

  `protected class`

  `Button.AccessibleAWTButton`

  This class implements accessibility support for the
  `Button` class.

  ## Nested classes/interfaces inherited from class java.awt.[Component](Component.md "class in java.awt")

  `Component.AccessibleAWTComponent, Component.BaselineResizeBehavior, Component.BltBufferStrategy, Component.FlipBufferStrategy`
* ## Field Summary

  ### Fields inherited from class java.awt.[Component](Component.md "class in java.awt")

  `accessibleContext, BOTTOM_ALIGNMENT, CENTER_ALIGNMENT, LEFT_ALIGNMENT, RIGHT_ALIGNMENT, TOP_ALIGNMENT`

  ### Fields inherited from interface java.awt.image.[ImageObserver](image/ImageObserver.md "interface in java.awt.image")

  `ABORT, ALLBITS, ERROR, FRAMEBITS, HEIGHT, PROPERTIES, SOMEBITS, WIDTH`
* ## Constructor Summary

  Constructors

  Constructor

  Description

  `Button()`

  Constructs a button with an empty string for its label.

  `Button(String label)`

  Constructs a button with the specified label.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsConcrete Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `void`

  `addActionListener(ActionListener l)`

  Adds the specified action listener to receive action events from
  this button.

  `void`

  `addNotify()`

  Creates the peer of the button.

  `AccessibleContext`

  `getAccessibleContext()`

  Gets the `AccessibleContext` associated with
  this `Button`.

  `String`

  `getActionCommand()`

  Returns the command name of the action event fired by this button.

  `ActionListener[]`

  `getActionListeners()`

  Returns an array of all the action listeners
  registered on this button.

  `String`

  `getLabel()`

  Gets the label of this button.

  `<T extends EventListener>  
  T[]`

  `getListeners(Class<T> listenerType)`

  Returns an array of all the objects currently registered
  as `FooListener`s
  upon this `Button`.

  `protected String`

  `paramString()`

  Returns a string representing the state of this `Button`.

  `protected void`

  `processActionEvent(ActionEvent e)`

  Processes action events occurring on this button
  by dispatching them to any registered
  `ActionListener` objects.

  `protected void`

  `processEvent(AWTEvent e)`

  Processes events on this button.

  `void`

  `removeActionListener(ActionListener l)`

  Removes the specified action listener so that it no longer
  receives action events from this button.

  `void`

  `setActionCommand(String command)`

  Sets the command name for the action event fired
  by this button.

  `void`

  `setLabel(String label)`

  Sets the button's label to be the specified string.

  ### Methods inherited from class java.awt.[Component](Component.md "class in java.awt")

  `action, add, addComponentListener, addFocusListener, addHierarchyBoundsListener, addHierarchyListener, addInputMethodListener, addKeyListener, addMouseListener, addMouseMotionListener, addMouseWheelListener, addPropertyChangeListener, addPropertyChangeListener, applyComponentOrientation, areFocusTraversalKeysSet, bounds, checkImage, checkImage, coalesceEvents, contains, contains, createImage, createImage, createVolatileImage, createVolatileImage, deliverEvent, disable, disableEvents, dispatchEvent, doLayout, enable, enable, enableEvents, enableInputMethods, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, getAlignmentX, getAlignmentY, getBackground, getBaseline, getBaselineResizeBehavior, getBounds, getBounds, getColorModel, getComponentAt, getComponentAt, getComponentListeners, getComponentOrientation, getCursor, getDropTarget, getFocusCycleRootAncestor, getFocusListeners, getFocusTraversalKeys, getFocusTraversalKeysEnabled, getFont, getFontMetrics, getForeground, getGraphics, getGraphicsConfiguration, getHeight, getHierarchyBoundsListeners, getHierarchyListeners, getIgnoreRepaint, getInputContext, getInputMethodListeners, getInputMethodRequests, getKeyListeners, getLocale, getLocation, getLocation, getLocationOnScreen, getMaximumSize, getMinimumSize, getMouseListeners, getMouseMotionListeners, getMousePosition, getMouseWheelListeners, getName, getParent, getPreferredSize, getPropertyChangeListeners, getPropertyChangeListeners, getSize, getSize, getToolkit, getTreeLock, getWidth, getX, getY, gotFocus, handleEvent, hasFocus, hide, imageUpdate, inside, invalidate, isBackgroundSet, isCursorSet, isDisplayable, isDoubleBuffered, isEnabled, isFocusable, isFocusCycleRoot, isFocusOwner, isFocusTraversable, isFontSet, isForegroundSet, isLightweight, isMaximumSizeSet, isMinimumSizeSet, isOpaque, isPreferredSizeSet, isShowing, isValid, isVisible, keyDown, keyUp, layout, list, list, list, list, list, locate, location, lostFocus, minimumSize, mouseDown, mouseDrag, mouseEnter, mouseExit, mouseMove, mouseUp, move, nextFocus, paint, paintAll, postEvent, preferredSize, prepareImage, prepareImage, print, printAll, processComponentEvent, processFocusEvent, processHierarchyBoundsEvent, processHierarchyEvent, processInputMethodEvent, processKeyEvent, processMouseEvent, processMouseMotionEvent, processMouseWheelEvent, remove, removeComponentListener, removeFocusListener, removeHierarchyBoundsListener, removeHierarchyListener, removeInputMethodListener, removeKeyListener, removeMouseListener, removeMouseMotionListener, removeMouseWheelListener, removeNotify, removePropertyChangeListener, removePropertyChangeListener, repaint, repaint, repaint, repaint, requestFocus, requestFocus, requestFocus, requestFocus, requestFocusInWindow, requestFocusInWindow, requestFocusInWindow, reshape, resize, resize, revalidate, setBackground, setBounds, setBounds, setComponentOrientation, setCursor, setDropTarget, setEnabled, setFocusable, setFocusTraversalKeys, setFocusTraversalKeysEnabled, setFont, setForeground, setIgnoreRepaint, setLocale, setLocation, setLocation, setMaximumSize, setMinimumSize, setMixingCutoutShape, setName, setPreferredSize, setSize, setSize, setVisible, show, show, size, toString, transferFocus, transferFocusBackward, transferFocusUpCycle, update, validate`

  ### Methods inherited from class java.lang.[Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `clone, equals, finalize, getClass, hashCode, notify, notifyAll, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Constructor Details

  + ### Button

    public Button()
    throws [HeadlessException](HeadlessException.md "class in java.awt")

    Constructs a button with an empty string for its label.

    Throws:
    :   `HeadlessException` - if GraphicsEnvironment.isHeadless()
        returns true

    See Also:
    :   - [`GraphicsEnvironment.isHeadless()`](GraphicsEnvironment.md#isHeadless())
  + ### Button

    public Button([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") label)
    throws [HeadlessException](HeadlessException.md "class in java.awt")

    Constructs a button with the specified label.

    Parameters:
    :   `label` - a string label for the button, or
        `null` for no label

    Throws:
    :   `HeadlessException` - if GraphicsEnvironment.isHeadless()
        returns true

    See Also:
    :   - [`GraphicsEnvironment.isHeadless()`](GraphicsEnvironment.md#isHeadless())
* ## Method Details

  + ### addNotify

    public void addNotify()

    Creates the peer of the button. The button's peer allows the
    application to change the look of the button without changing
    its functionality.

    Overrides:
    :   `addNotify` in class `Component`

    See Also:
    :   - [`Component.getToolkit()`](Component.md#getToolkit())
  + ### getLabel

    public [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") getLabel()

    Gets the label of this button.

    Returns:
    :   the button's label, or `null`
        if the button has no label.

    See Also:
    :   - [`setLabel(java.lang.String)`](#setLabel(java.lang.String))
  + ### setLabel

    public void setLabel([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") label)

    Sets the button's label to be the specified string.

    Parameters:
    :   `label` - the new label, or `null`
        if the button has no label.

    See Also:
    :   - [`getLabel()`](#getLabel())
  + ### setActionCommand

    public void setActionCommand([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") command)

    Sets the command name for the action event fired
    by this button. By default this action command is
    set to match the label of the button.

    Parameters:
    :   `command` - a string used to set the button's
        action command.
        If the string is `null` then the action command
        is set to match the label of the button.

    Since:
    :   1.1

    See Also:
    :   - [`ActionEvent`](event/ActionEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")
  + ### getActionCommand

    public [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") getActionCommand()

    Returns the command name of the action event fired by this button.
    If the command name is `null` (default) then this method
    returns the label of the button.

    Returns:
    :   the action command name (or label) for this button
  + ### addActionListener

    public void addActionListener([ActionListener](event/ActionListener.md "interface in java.awt.event") l)

    Adds the specified action listener to receive action events from
    this button. Action events occur when a user presses or releases
    the mouse over this button.
    If l is null, no exception is thrown and no action is performed.

    Refer to [AWT Threading Issues](doc-files/AWTThreadIssues.md#ListenersThreads) for details on AWT's threading model.

    Parameters:
    :   `l` - the action listener

    Since:
    :   1.1

    See Also:
    :   - [`removeActionListener(java.awt.event.ActionListener)`](#removeActionListener(java.awt.event.ActionListener))
        - [`getActionListeners()`](#getActionListeners())
        - [`ActionListener`](event/ActionListener.md "interface in java.awt.event")
  + ### removeActionListener

    public void removeActionListener([ActionListener](event/ActionListener.md "interface in java.awt.event") l)

    Removes the specified action listener so that it no longer
    receives action events from this button. Action events occur
    when a user presses or releases the mouse over this button.
    If l is null, no exception is thrown and no action is performed.

    Refer to [AWT Threading Issues](doc-files/AWTThreadIssues.md#ListenersThreads) for details on AWT's threading model.

    Parameters:
    :   `l` - the action listener

    Since:
    :   1.1

    See Also:
    :   - [`addActionListener(java.awt.event.ActionListener)`](#addActionListener(java.awt.event.ActionListener))
        - [`getActionListeners()`](#getActionListeners())
        - [`ActionListener`](event/ActionListener.md "interface in java.awt.event")
  + ### getActionListeners

    public [ActionListener](event/ActionListener.md "interface in java.awt.event")[] getActionListeners()

    Returns an array of all the action listeners
    registered on this button.

    Returns:
    :   all of this button's `ActionListener`s
        or an empty array if no action
        listeners are currently registered

    Since:
    :   1.4

    See Also:
    :   - [`addActionListener(java.awt.event.ActionListener)`](#addActionListener(java.awt.event.ActionListener))
        - [`removeActionListener(java.awt.event.ActionListener)`](#removeActionListener(java.awt.event.ActionListener))
        - [`ActionListener`](event/ActionListener.md "interface in java.awt.event")
  + ### getListeners

    public <T extends [EventListener](../../../java.base/java/util/EventListener.md "interface in java.util")> T[] getListeners([Class](../../../java.base/java/lang/Class.md "class in java.lang")<T> listenerType)

    Returns an array of all the objects currently registered
    as `FooListener`s
    upon this `Button`.
    `FooListener`s are registered using the
    `addFooListener` method.

    You can specify the `listenerType` argument
    with a class literal, such as
    `FooListener.class`.
    For example, you can query a
    `Button b`
    for its action listeners with the following code:

    ```
    ActionListener[] als = (ActionListener[])(b.getListeners(ActionListener.class));
    ```

    If no such listeners exist, this method returns an empty array.

    Overrides:
    :   `getListeners` in class `Component`

    Type Parameters:
    :   `T` - the type of the listeners

    Parameters:
    :   `listenerType` - the type of listeners requested; this parameter
        should specify an interface that descends from
        `java.util.EventListener`

    Returns:
    :   an array of all objects registered as
        `FooListener`s on this button,
        or an empty array if no such
        listeners have been added

    Throws:
    :   `ClassCastException` - if `listenerType`
        doesn't specify a class or interface that implements
        `java.util.EventListener`

    Since:
    :   1.3

    See Also:
    :   - [`getActionListeners()`](#getActionListeners())
  + ### processEvent

    protected void processEvent([AWTEvent](AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt") e)

    Processes events on this button. If an event is
    an instance of `ActionEvent`, this method invokes
    the `processActionEvent` method. Otherwise,
    it invokes `processEvent` on the superclass.

    Note that if the event parameter is `null`
    the behavior is unspecified and may result in an
    exception.

    Overrides:
    :   `processEvent` in class `Component`

    Parameters:
    :   `e` - the event

    Since:
    :   1.1

    See Also:
    :   - [`ActionEvent`](event/ActionEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")
        - [`processActionEvent(java.awt.event.ActionEvent)`](#processActionEvent(java.awt.event.ActionEvent))
  + ### processActionEvent

    protected void processActionEvent([ActionEvent](event/ActionEvent.md "class in java.awt.event") e)

    Processes action events occurring on this button
    by dispatching them to any registered
    `ActionListener` objects.

    This method is not called unless action events are
    enabled for this button. Action events are enabled
    when one of the following occurs:
    - An `ActionListener` object is registered
      via `addActionListener`.- Action events are enabled via `enableEvents`.

    Note that if the event parameter is `null`
    the behavior is unspecified and may result in an
    exception.

    Parameters:
    :   `e` - the action event

    Since:
    :   1.1

    See Also:
    :   - [`ActionListener`](event/ActionListener.md "interface in java.awt.event")
        - [`addActionListener(java.awt.event.ActionListener)`](#addActionListener(java.awt.event.ActionListener))
        - [`Component.enableEvents(long)`](Component.md#enableEvents(long))
  + ### paramString

    protected [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") paramString()

    Returns a string representing the state of this `Button`.
    This method is intended to be used only for debugging purposes, and the
    content and format of the returned string may vary between
    implementations. The returned string may be empty but may not be
    `null`.

    Overrides:
    :   `paramString` in class `Component`

    Returns:
    :   the parameter string of this button
  + ### getAccessibleContext

    [@BeanProperty](../beans/BeanProperty.md "annotation interface in java.beans")([expert](../beans/BeanProperty.md#expert())=true,
    [description](../beans/BeanProperty.md#description())="The AccessibleContext associated with this Button.")
    public [AccessibleContext](../../javax/accessibility/AccessibleContext.md "class in javax.accessibility") getAccessibleContext()

    Gets the `AccessibleContext` associated with
    this `Button`. For buttons, the
    `AccessibleContext` takes the form of an
    `AccessibleAWTButton`.
    A new `AccessibleAWTButton` instance is
    created if necessary.

    Specified by:
    :   `getAccessibleContext` in interface `Accessible`

    Overrides:
    :   `getAccessibleContext` in class `Component`

    Returns:
    :   an `AccessibleAWTButton` that serves as the
        `AccessibleContext` of this `Button`

    Since:
    :   1.3