Module [java.desktop](../../module-summary.md)

Package [java.awt](package-summary.md)

# Class KeyboardFocusManager

[java.lang.Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

java.awt.KeyboardFocusManager

All Implemented Interfaces:
:   `KeyEventDispatcher`, `KeyEventPostProcessor`

Direct Known Subclasses:
:   `DefaultKeyboardFocusManager`

---

public abstract class KeyboardFocusManager
extends [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")
implements [KeyEventDispatcher](KeyEventDispatcher.md "interface in java.awt"), [KeyEventPostProcessor](KeyEventPostProcessor.md "interface in java.awt")

The KeyboardFocusManager is responsible for managing the active and focused
Windows, and the current focus owner. The focus owner is defined as the
Component in an application that will typically receive all KeyEvents
generated by the user. The focused Window is the Window that is, or
contains, the focus owner. Only a Frame or a Dialog can be the active
Window. The native windowing system may denote the active Window or its
children with special decorations, such as a highlighted title bar. The
active Window is always either the focused Window, or the first Frame or
Dialog that is an owner of the focused Window.

The KeyboardFocusManager is both a centralized location for client code to
query for the focus owner and initiate focus changes, and an event
dispatcher for all FocusEvents, WindowEvents related to focus, and
KeyEvents.

Some browsers partition applets in different code bases into separate
contexts, and establish walls between these contexts. In such a scenario,
there will be one KeyboardFocusManager per context. Other browsers place all
applets into the same context, implying that there will be only a single,
global KeyboardFocusManager for all applets. This behavior is
implementation-dependent. Consult your browser's documentation for more
information. No matter how many contexts there may be, however, there can
never be more than one focus owner, focused Window, or active Window, per
ClassLoader.

Please see
[How to Use the Focus Subsystem](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/uiswing/misc/focus.html),
a section in *The Java Tutorial*, and the
[Focus Specification](doc-files/FocusSpec.md)
for more information.

Since:
:   1.4

See Also:
:   * [`Window`](Window.md "class in java.awt")
    * [`Frame`](Frame.md "class in java.awt")
    * [`Dialog`](Dialog.md "class in java.awt")
    * [`FocusEvent`](event/FocusEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")
    * [`WindowEvent`](event/WindowEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")
    * [`KeyEvent`](event/KeyEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

* ## Field Summary

  Fields

  Modifier and Type

  Field

  Description

  `static final int`

  `BACKWARD_TRAVERSAL_KEYS`

  The identifier for the Backward focus traversal keys.

  `static final int`

  `DOWN_CYCLE_TRAVERSAL_KEYS`

  The identifier for the Down Cycle focus traversal keys.

  `static final int`

  `FORWARD_TRAVERSAL_KEYS`

  The identifier for the Forward focus traversal keys.

  `static final int`

  `UP_CYCLE_TRAVERSAL_KEYS`

  The identifier for the Up Cycle focus traversal keys.
* ## Constructor Summary

  Constructors

  Constructor

  Description

  `KeyboardFocusManager()`

  Initializes a KeyboardFocusManager.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsStatic MethodsInstance MethodsAbstract MethodsConcrete Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `void`

  `addKeyEventDispatcher(KeyEventDispatcher dispatcher)`

  Adds a KeyEventDispatcher to this KeyboardFocusManager's dispatcher
  chain.

  `void`

  `addKeyEventPostProcessor(KeyEventPostProcessor processor)`

  Adds a KeyEventPostProcessor to this KeyboardFocusManager's post-
  processor chain.

  `void`

  `addPropertyChangeListener(PropertyChangeListener listener)`

  Adds a PropertyChangeListener to the listener list.

  `void`

  `addPropertyChangeListener(String propertyName,
  PropertyChangeListener listener)`

  Adds a PropertyChangeListener to the listener list for a specific
  property.

  `void`

  `addVetoableChangeListener(VetoableChangeListener listener)`

  Adds a VetoableChangeListener to the listener list.

  `void`

  `addVetoableChangeListener(String propertyName,
  VetoableChangeListener listener)`

  Adds a VetoableChangeListener to the listener list for a specific
  property.

  `void`

  `clearFocusOwner()`

  Clears the focus owner at both the Java and native levels if the
  focus owner exists and resides in the same context as the calling thread,
  otherwise the method returns silently.

  `void`

  `clearGlobalFocusOwner()`

  Clears the global focus owner at both the Java and native levels.

  `protected abstract void`

  `dequeueKeyEvents(long after,
  Component untilFocused)`

  Called by the AWT to notify the KeyboardFocusManager that it should
  cancel delayed dispatching of KeyEvents.

  `protected abstract void`

  `discardKeyEvents(Component comp)`

  Called by the AWT to notify the KeyboardFocusManager that it should
  cancel delayed dispatching of KeyEvents.

  `abstract boolean`

  `dispatchEvent(AWTEvent e)`

  This method is called by the AWT event dispatcher requesting that the
  current KeyboardFocusManager dispatch the specified event on its behalf.

  `abstract boolean`

  `dispatchKeyEvent(KeyEvent e)`

  Typically this method will be called by `dispatchEvent` if no
  other KeyEventDispatcher in the dispatcher chain dispatched the
  KeyEvent, or if no other KeyEventDispatchers are registered.

  `final void`

  `downFocusCycle()`

  Moves the focus down one focus traversal cycle from the current focus
  owner, if and only if the current focus owner is a Container that is a
  focus cycle root.

  `abstract void`

  `downFocusCycle(Container aContainer)`

  Moves the focus down one focus traversal cycle.

  `protected abstract void`

  `enqueueKeyEvents(long after,
  Component untilFocused)`

  Called by the AWT to notify the KeyboardFocusManager that it should
  delay dispatching of KeyEvents until the specified Component becomes
  the focus owner.

  `protected void`

  `firePropertyChange(String propertyName,
  Object oldValue,
  Object newValue)`

  Fires a PropertyChangeEvent in response to a change in a bound property.

  `protected void`

  `fireVetoableChange(String propertyName,
  Object oldValue,
  Object newValue)`

  Fires a PropertyChangeEvent in response to a change in a vetoable
  property.

  `final void`

  `focusNextComponent()`

  Focuses the Component after the current focus owner.

  `abstract void`

  `focusNextComponent(Component aComponent)`

  Focuses the Component after aComponent, typically based on a
  FocusTraversalPolicy.

  `final void`

  `focusPreviousComponent()`

  Focuses the Component before the current focus owner.

  `abstract void`

  `focusPreviousComponent(Component aComponent)`

  Focuses the Component before aComponent, typically based on a
  FocusTraversalPolicy.

  `Window`

  `getActiveWindow()`

  Returns the active Window, if the active Window is in the same context
  as the calling thread.

  `Container`

  `getCurrentFocusCycleRoot()`

  Returns the current focus cycle root, if the current focus cycle root is
  in the same context as the calling thread.

  `static KeyboardFocusManager`

  `getCurrentKeyboardFocusManager()`

  Returns the current KeyboardFocusManager instance for the calling
  thread's context.

  `Set<AWTKeyStroke>`

  `getDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int id)`

  Returns a Set of default focus traversal keys for a given traversal
  operation.

  `FocusTraversalPolicy`

  `getDefaultFocusTraversalPolicy()`

  Returns the default FocusTraversalPolicy.

  `Window`

  `getFocusedWindow()`

  Returns the focused Window, if the focused Window is in the same context
  as the calling thread.

  `Component`

  `getFocusOwner()`

  Returns the focus owner, if the focus owner is in the same context as
  the calling thread.

  `protected Window`

  `getGlobalActiveWindow()`

  Returns the active Window, even if the calling thread is in a different
  context than the active Window.

  `protected Container`

  `getGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot()`

  Returns the current focus cycle root, even if the calling thread is in a
  different context than the current focus cycle root.

  `protected Window`

  `getGlobalFocusedWindow()`

  Returns the focused Window, even if the calling thread is in a different
  context than the focused Window.

  `protected Component`

  `getGlobalFocusOwner()`

  Returns the focus owner, even if the calling thread is in a different
  context than the focus owner.

  `protected Component`

  `getGlobalPermanentFocusOwner()`

  Returns the permanent focus owner, even if the calling thread is in a
  different context than the permanent focus owner.

  `protected List<KeyEventDispatcher>`

  `getKeyEventDispatchers()`

  Returns this KeyboardFocusManager's KeyEventDispatcher chain as a List.

  `protected List<KeyEventPostProcessor>`

  `getKeyEventPostProcessors()`

  Returns this KeyboardFocusManager's KeyEventPostProcessor chain as a
  List.

  `Component`

  `getPermanentFocusOwner()`

  Returns the permanent focus owner, if the permanent focus owner is in
  the same context as the calling thread.

  `PropertyChangeListener[]`

  `getPropertyChangeListeners()`

  Returns an array of all the property change listeners
  registered on this keyboard focus manager.

  `PropertyChangeListener[]`

  `getPropertyChangeListeners(String propertyName)`

  Returns an array of all the `PropertyChangeListener`s
  associated with the named property.

  `VetoableChangeListener[]`

  `getVetoableChangeListeners()`

  Returns an array of all the vetoable change listeners
  registered on this keyboard focus manager.

  `VetoableChangeListener[]`

  `getVetoableChangeListeners(String propertyName)`

  Returns an array of all the `VetoableChangeListener`s
  associated with the named property.

  `abstract boolean`

  `postProcessKeyEvent(KeyEvent e)`

  This method will be called by `dispatchKeyEvent`.

  `abstract void`

  `processKeyEvent(Component focusedComponent,
  KeyEvent e)`

  This method initiates a focus traversal operation if and only if the
  KeyEvent represents a focus traversal key for the specified
  focusedComponent.

  `final void`

  `redispatchEvent(Component target,
  AWTEvent e)`

  Redispatches an AWTEvent in such a way that the AWT event dispatcher
  will not recursively request that the KeyboardFocusManager, or any
  installed KeyEventDispatchers, dispatch the event again.

  `void`

  `removeKeyEventDispatcher(KeyEventDispatcher dispatcher)`

  Removes a KeyEventDispatcher which was previously added to this
  KeyboardFocusManager's dispatcher chain.

  `void`

  `removeKeyEventPostProcessor(KeyEventPostProcessor processor)`

  Removes a previously added KeyEventPostProcessor from this
  KeyboardFocusManager's post-processor chain.

  `void`

  `removePropertyChangeListener(PropertyChangeListener listener)`

  Removes a PropertyChangeListener from the listener list.

  `void`

  `removePropertyChangeListener(String propertyName,
  PropertyChangeListener listener)`

  Removes a PropertyChangeListener from the listener list for a specific
  property.

  `void`

  `removeVetoableChangeListener(VetoableChangeListener listener)`

  Removes a VetoableChangeListener from the listener list.

  `void`

  `removeVetoableChangeListener(String propertyName,
  VetoableChangeListener listener)`

  Removes a VetoableChangeListener from the listener list for a specific
  property.

  `static void`

  `setCurrentKeyboardFocusManager(KeyboardFocusManager newManager)`

  Sets the current KeyboardFocusManager instance for the calling thread's
  context.

  `void`

  `setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int id,
  Set<? extends AWTKeyStroke> keystrokes)`

  Sets the default focus traversal keys for a given traversal operation.

  `void`

  `setDefaultFocusTraversalPolicy(FocusTraversalPolicy defaultPolicy)`

  Sets the default FocusTraversalPolicy.

  `protected void`

  `setGlobalActiveWindow(Window activeWindow)`

  Sets the active Window.

  `void`

  `setGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot(Container newFocusCycleRoot)`

  Sets the current focus cycle root.

  `protected void`

  `setGlobalFocusedWindow(Window focusedWindow)`

  Sets the focused Window.

  `protected void`

  `setGlobalFocusOwner(Component focusOwner)`

  Sets the focus owner.

  `protected void`

  `setGlobalPermanentFocusOwner(Component permanentFocusOwner)`

  Sets the permanent focus owner.

  `final void`

  `upFocusCycle()`

  Moves the focus up one focus traversal cycle from the current focus
  owner.

  `abstract void`

  `upFocusCycle(Component aComponent)`

  Moves the focus up one focus traversal cycle.

  ### Methods inherited from class java.lang.[Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `clone, equals, finalize, getClass, hashCode, notify, notifyAll, toString, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Field Details

  + ### FORWARD\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS

    public static final int FORWARD\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS

    The identifier for the Forward focus traversal keys.

    See Also:
    :   - [`setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int, java.util.Set<? extends java.awt.AWTKeyStroke>)`](#setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int,java.util.Set))
        - [`getDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int)`](#getDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int))
        - [`Component.setFocusTraversalKeys(int, java.util.Set<? extends java.awt.AWTKeyStroke>)`](Component.md#setFocusTraversalKeys(int,java.util.Set))
        - [`Component.getFocusTraversalKeys(int)`](Component.md#getFocusTraversalKeys(int))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.KeyboardFocusManager.FORWARD_TRAVERSAL_KEYS)
  + ### BACKWARD\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS

    public static final int BACKWARD\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS

    The identifier for the Backward focus traversal keys.

    See Also:
    :   - [`setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int, java.util.Set<? extends java.awt.AWTKeyStroke>)`](#setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int,java.util.Set))
        - [`getDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int)`](#getDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int))
        - [`Component.setFocusTraversalKeys(int, java.util.Set<? extends java.awt.AWTKeyStroke>)`](Component.md#setFocusTraversalKeys(int,java.util.Set))
        - [`Component.getFocusTraversalKeys(int)`](Component.md#getFocusTraversalKeys(int))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.KeyboardFocusManager.BACKWARD_TRAVERSAL_KEYS)
  + ### UP\_CYCLE\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS

    public static final int UP\_CYCLE\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS

    The identifier for the Up Cycle focus traversal keys.

    See Also:
    :   - [`setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int, java.util.Set<? extends java.awt.AWTKeyStroke>)`](#setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int,java.util.Set))
        - [`getDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int)`](#getDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int))
        - [`Component.setFocusTraversalKeys(int, java.util.Set<? extends java.awt.AWTKeyStroke>)`](Component.md#setFocusTraversalKeys(int,java.util.Set))
        - [`Component.getFocusTraversalKeys(int)`](Component.md#getFocusTraversalKeys(int))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.KeyboardFocusManager.UP_CYCLE_TRAVERSAL_KEYS)
  + ### DOWN\_CYCLE\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS

    public static final int DOWN\_CYCLE\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS

    The identifier for the Down Cycle focus traversal keys.

    See Also:
    :   - [`setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int, java.util.Set<? extends java.awt.AWTKeyStroke>)`](#setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int,java.util.Set))
        - [`getDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int)`](#getDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int))
        - [`Component.setFocusTraversalKeys(int, java.util.Set<? extends java.awt.AWTKeyStroke>)`](Component.md#setFocusTraversalKeys(int,java.util.Set))
        - [`Component.getFocusTraversalKeys(int)`](Component.md#getFocusTraversalKeys(int))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.KeyboardFocusManager.DOWN_CYCLE_TRAVERSAL_KEYS)
* ## Constructor Details

  + ### KeyboardFocusManager

    public KeyboardFocusManager()

    Initializes a KeyboardFocusManager.
* ## Method Details

  + ### getCurrentKeyboardFocusManager

    public static [KeyboardFocusManager](KeyboardFocusManager.md "class in java.awt") getCurrentKeyboardFocusManager()

    Returns the current KeyboardFocusManager instance for the calling
    thread's context.

    Returns:
    :   this thread's context's KeyboardFocusManager

    See Also:
    :   - [`setCurrentKeyboardFocusManager(java.awt.KeyboardFocusManager)`](#setCurrentKeyboardFocusManager(java.awt.KeyboardFocusManager))
  + ### setCurrentKeyboardFocusManager

    public static void setCurrentKeyboardFocusManager([KeyboardFocusManager](KeyboardFocusManager.md "class in java.awt") newManager)
    throws [SecurityException](../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")

    Sets the current KeyboardFocusManager instance for the calling thread's
    context. If null is specified, then the current KeyboardFocusManager
    is replaced with a new instance of DefaultKeyboardFocusManager.

    If a SecurityManager is installed, the calling thread must be granted
    the AWTPermission "replaceKeyboardFocusManager" in order to replace the
    the current KeyboardFocusManager. If this permission is not granted,
    this method will throw a SecurityException, and the current
    KeyboardFocusManager will be unchanged.

    Parameters:
    :   `newManager` - the new KeyboardFocusManager for this thread's context

    Throws:
    :   `SecurityException` - if the calling thread does not have permission
        to replace the current KeyboardFocusManager

    See Also:
    :   - [`getCurrentKeyboardFocusManager()`](#getCurrentKeyboardFocusManager())
        - [`DefaultKeyboardFocusManager`](DefaultKeyboardFocusManager.md "class in java.awt")
  + ### getFocusOwner

    public [Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") getFocusOwner()

    Returns the focus owner, if the focus owner is in the same context as
    the calling thread. The focus owner is defined as the Component in an
    application that will typically receive all KeyEvents generated by the
    user. KeyEvents which map to the focus owner's focus traversal keys will
    not be delivered if focus traversal keys are enabled for the focus
    owner. In addition, KeyEventDispatchers may retarget or consume
    KeyEvents before they reach the focus owner.

    Returns:
    :   the focus owner, or null if the focus owner is not a member of
        the calling thread's context

    See Also:
    :   - [`getGlobalFocusOwner()`](#getGlobalFocusOwner())
        - [`setGlobalFocusOwner(java.awt.Component)`](#setGlobalFocusOwner(java.awt.Component))
  + ### getGlobalFocusOwner

    protected [Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") getGlobalFocusOwner()
    throws [SecurityException](../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")

    Returns the focus owner, even if the calling thread is in a different
    context than the focus owner. The focus owner is defined as the
    Component in an application that will typically receive all KeyEvents
    generated by the user. KeyEvents which map to the focus owner's focus
    traversal keys will not be delivered if focus traversal keys are enabled
    for the focus owner. In addition, KeyEventDispatchers may retarget or
    consume KeyEvents before they reach the focus owner.

    This method will throw a SecurityException if this KeyboardFocusManager
    is not the current KeyboardFocusManager for the calling thread's
    context.

    Returns:
    :   the focus owner

    Throws:
    :   `SecurityException` - if this KeyboardFocusManager is not the
        current KeyboardFocusManager for the calling thread's context
        and if the calling thread does not have "replaceKeyboardFocusManager"
        permission

    See Also:
    :   - [`getFocusOwner()`](#getFocusOwner())
        - [`setGlobalFocusOwner(java.awt.Component)`](#setGlobalFocusOwner(java.awt.Component))
  + ### setGlobalFocusOwner

    protected void setGlobalFocusOwner([Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") focusOwner)
    throws [SecurityException](../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")

    Sets the focus owner. The operation will be cancelled if the Component
    is not focusable. The focus owner is defined as the Component in an
    application that will typically receive all KeyEvents generated by the
    user. KeyEvents which map to the focus owner's focus traversal keys will
    not be delivered if focus traversal keys are enabled for the focus
    owner. In addition, KeyEventDispatchers may retarget or consume
    KeyEvents before they reach the focus owner.

    This method does not actually set the focus to the specified Component.
    It merely stores the value to be subsequently returned by
    `getFocusOwner()`. Use `Component.requestFocus()`
    or `Component.requestFocusInWindow()` to change the focus
    owner, subject to platform limitations.

    Parameters:
    :   `focusOwner` - the focus owner

    Throws:
    :   `SecurityException` - if this KeyboardFocusManager is not the
        current KeyboardFocusManager for the calling thread's context
        and if the calling thread does not have "replaceKeyboardFocusManager"
        permission

    See Also:
    :   - [`getFocusOwner()`](#getFocusOwner())
        - [`getGlobalFocusOwner()`](#getGlobalFocusOwner())
        - [`Component.requestFocus()`](Component.md#requestFocus())
        - [`Component.requestFocusInWindow()`](Component.md#requestFocusInWindow())
        - [`Component.isFocusable()`](Component.md#isFocusable())
  + ### clearFocusOwner

    public void clearFocusOwner()

    Clears the focus owner at both the Java and native levels if the
    focus owner exists and resides in the same context as the calling thread,
    otherwise the method returns silently.

    The focus owner component will receive a permanent FOCUS\_LOST event.
    After this operation completes, the native windowing system will discard
    all user-generated KeyEvents until the user selects a new Component to
    receive focus, or a Component is given focus explicitly via a call to
    `requestFocus()`. This operation does not change the focused or
    active Windows.

    Since:
    :   1.8

    See Also:
    :   - [`Component.requestFocus()`](Component.md#requestFocus())
        - [`FocusEvent.FOCUS_LOST`](event/FocusEvent.md#FOCUS_LOST)
  + ### clearGlobalFocusOwner

    public void clearGlobalFocusOwner()
    throws [SecurityException](../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")

    Clears the global focus owner at both the Java and native levels. If
    there exists a focus owner, that Component will receive a permanent
    FOCUS\_LOST event. After this operation completes, the native windowing
    system will discard all user-generated KeyEvents until the user selects
    a new Component to receive focus, or a Component is given focus
    explicitly via a call to `requestFocus()`. This operation
    does not change the focused or active Windows.

    If a SecurityManager is installed, the calling thread must be granted
    the "replaceKeyboardFocusManager" AWTPermission. If this permission is
    not granted, this method will throw a SecurityException, and the current
    focus owner will not be cleared.

    This method is intended to be used only by KeyboardFocusManager set as
    current KeyboardFocusManager for the calling thread's context. It is not
    for general client use.

    Throws:
    :   `SecurityException` - if the calling thread does not have
        "replaceKeyboardFocusManager" permission

    See Also:
    :   - [`clearFocusOwner()`](#clearFocusOwner())
        - [`Component.requestFocus()`](Component.md#requestFocus())
        - [`FocusEvent.FOCUS_LOST`](event/FocusEvent.md#FOCUS_LOST)
  + ### getPermanentFocusOwner

    public [Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") getPermanentFocusOwner()

    Returns the permanent focus owner, if the permanent focus owner is in
    the same context as the calling thread. The permanent focus owner is
    defined as the last Component in an application to receive a permanent
    FOCUS\_GAINED event. The focus owner and permanent focus owner are
    equivalent unless a temporary focus change is currently in effect. In
    such a situation, the permanent focus owner will again be the focus
    owner when the temporary focus change ends.

    Returns:
    :   the permanent focus owner, or null if the permanent focus owner
        is not a member of the calling thread's context

    See Also:
    :   - [`getGlobalPermanentFocusOwner()`](#getGlobalPermanentFocusOwner())
        - [`setGlobalPermanentFocusOwner(java.awt.Component)`](#setGlobalPermanentFocusOwner(java.awt.Component))
  + ### getGlobalPermanentFocusOwner

    protected [Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") getGlobalPermanentFocusOwner()
    throws [SecurityException](../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")

    Returns the permanent focus owner, even if the calling thread is in a
    different context than the permanent focus owner. The permanent focus
    owner is defined as the last Component in an application to receive a
    permanent FOCUS\_GAINED event. The focus owner and permanent focus owner
    are equivalent unless a temporary focus change is currently in effect.
    In such a situation, the permanent focus owner will again be the focus
    owner when the temporary focus change ends.

    Returns:
    :   the permanent focus owner

    Throws:
    :   `SecurityException` - if this KeyboardFocusManager is not the
        current KeyboardFocusManager for the calling thread's context
        and if the calling thread does not have "replaceKeyboardFocusManager"
        permission

    See Also:
    :   - [`getPermanentFocusOwner()`](#getPermanentFocusOwner())
        - [`setGlobalPermanentFocusOwner(java.awt.Component)`](#setGlobalPermanentFocusOwner(java.awt.Component))
  + ### setGlobalPermanentFocusOwner

    protected void setGlobalPermanentFocusOwner([Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") permanentFocusOwner)
    throws [SecurityException](../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")

    Sets the permanent focus owner. The operation will be cancelled if the
    Component is not focusable. The permanent focus owner is defined as the
    last Component in an application to receive a permanent FOCUS\_GAINED
    event. The focus owner and permanent focus owner are equivalent unless
    a temporary focus change is currently in effect. In such a situation,
    the permanent focus owner will again be the focus owner when the
    temporary focus change ends.

    This method does not actually set the focus to the specified Component.
    It merely stores the value to be subsequently returned by
    `getPermanentFocusOwner()`. Use
    `Component.requestFocus()` or
    `Component.requestFocusInWindow()` to change the focus owner,
    subject to platform limitations.

    Parameters:
    :   `permanentFocusOwner` - the permanent focus owner

    Throws:
    :   `SecurityException` - if this KeyboardFocusManager is not the
        current KeyboardFocusManager for the calling thread's context
        and if the calling thread does not have "replaceKeyboardFocusManager"
        permission

    See Also:
    :   - [`getPermanentFocusOwner()`](#getPermanentFocusOwner())
        - [`getGlobalPermanentFocusOwner()`](#getGlobalPermanentFocusOwner())
        - [`Component.requestFocus()`](Component.md#requestFocus())
        - [`Component.requestFocusInWindow()`](Component.md#requestFocusInWindow())
        - [`Component.isFocusable()`](Component.md#isFocusable())
  + ### getFocusedWindow

    public [Window](Window.md "class in java.awt") getFocusedWindow()

    Returns the focused Window, if the focused Window is in the same context
    as the calling thread. The focused Window is the Window that is or
    contains the focus owner.

    Returns:
    :   the focused Window, or null if the focused Window is not a
        member of the calling thread's context

    See Also:
    :   - [`getGlobalFocusedWindow()`](#getGlobalFocusedWindow())
        - [`setGlobalFocusedWindow(java.awt.Window)`](#setGlobalFocusedWindow(java.awt.Window))
  + ### getGlobalFocusedWindow

    protected [Window](Window.md "class in java.awt") getGlobalFocusedWindow()
    throws [SecurityException](../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")

    Returns the focused Window, even if the calling thread is in a different
    context than the focused Window. The focused Window is the Window that
    is or contains the focus owner.

    Returns:
    :   the focused Window

    Throws:
    :   `SecurityException` - if this KeyboardFocusManager is not the
        current KeyboardFocusManager for the calling thread's context
        and if the calling thread does not have "replaceKeyboardFocusManager"
        permission

    See Also:
    :   - [`getFocusedWindow()`](#getFocusedWindow())
        - [`setGlobalFocusedWindow(java.awt.Window)`](#setGlobalFocusedWindow(java.awt.Window))
  + ### setGlobalFocusedWindow

    protected void setGlobalFocusedWindow([Window](Window.md "class in java.awt") focusedWindow)
    throws [SecurityException](../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")

    Sets the focused Window. The focused Window is the Window that is or
    contains the focus owner. The operation will be cancelled if the
    specified Window to focus is not a focusable Window.

    This method does not actually change the focused Window as far as the
    native windowing system is concerned. It merely stores the value to be
    subsequently returned by `getFocusedWindow()`. Use
    `Component.requestFocus()` or
    `Component.requestFocusInWindow()` to change the focused
    Window, subject to platform limitations.

    Parameters:
    :   `focusedWindow` - the focused Window

    Throws:
    :   `SecurityException` - if this KeyboardFocusManager is not the
        current KeyboardFocusManager for the calling thread's context
        and if the calling thread does not have "replaceKeyboardFocusManager"
        permission

    See Also:
    :   - [`getFocusedWindow()`](#getFocusedWindow())
        - [`getGlobalFocusedWindow()`](#getGlobalFocusedWindow())
        - [`Component.requestFocus()`](Component.md#requestFocus())
        - [`Component.requestFocusInWindow()`](Component.md#requestFocusInWindow())
        - [`Window.isFocusableWindow()`](Window.md#isFocusableWindow())
  + ### getActiveWindow

    public [Window](Window.md "class in java.awt") getActiveWindow()

    Returns the active Window, if the active Window is in the same context
    as the calling thread. Only a Frame or a Dialog can be the active
    Window. The native windowing system may denote the active Window or its
    children with special decorations, such as a highlighted title bar.
    The active Window is always either the focused Window, or the first
    Frame or Dialog that is an owner of the focused Window.

    Returns:
    :   the active Window, or null if the active Window is not a member
        of the calling thread's context

    See Also:
    :   - [`getGlobalActiveWindow()`](#getGlobalActiveWindow())
        - [`setGlobalActiveWindow(java.awt.Window)`](#setGlobalActiveWindow(java.awt.Window))
  + ### getGlobalActiveWindow

    protected [Window](Window.md "class in java.awt") getGlobalActiveWindow()
    throws [SecurityException](../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")

    Returns the active Window, even if the calling thread is in a different
    context than the active Window. Only a Frame or a Dialog can be the
    active Window. The native windowing system may denote the active Window
    or its children with special decorations, such as a highlighted title
    bar. The active Window is always either the focused Window, or the first
    Frame or Dialog that is an owner of the focused Window.

    Returns:
    :   the active Window

    Throws:
    :   `SecurityException` - if this KeyboardFocusManager is not the
        current KeyboardFocusManager for the calling thread's context
        and if the calling thread does not have "replaceKeyboardFocusManager"
        permission

    See Also:
    :   - [`getActiveWindow()`](#getActiveWindow())
        - [`setGlobalActiveWindow(java.awt.Window)`](#setGlobalActiveWindow(java.awt.Window))
  + ### setGlobalActiveWindow

    protected void setGlobalActiveWindow([Window](Window.md "class in java.awt") activeWindow)
    throws [SecurityException](../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")

    Sets the active Window. Only a Frame or a Dialog can be the active
    Window. The native windowing system may denote the active Window or its
    children with special decorations, such as a highlighted title bar. The
    active Window is always either the focused Window, or the first Frame or
    Dialog that is an owner of the focused Window.

    This method does not actually change the active Window as far as the
    native windowing system is concerned. It merely stores the value to be
    subsequently returned by `getActiveWindow()`. Use
    `Component.requestFocus()` or
    `Component.requestFocusInWindow()` to change the active
    Window, subject to platform limitations.

    Parameters:
    :   `activeWindow` - the active Window

    Throws:
    :   `SecurityException` - if this KeyboardFocusManager is not the
        current KeyboardFocusManager for the calling thread's context
        and if the calling thread does not have "replaceKeyboardFocusManager"
        permission

    See Also:
    :   - [`getActiveWindow()`](#getActiveWindow())
        - [`getGlobalActiveWindow()`](#getGlobalActiveWindow())
        - [`Component.requestFocus()`](Component.md#requestFocus())
        - [`Component.requestFocusInWindow()`](Component.md#requestFocusInWindow())
  + ### getDefaultFocusTraversalPolicy

    public [FocusTraversalPolicy](FocusTraversalPolicy.md "class in java.awt") getDefaultFocusTraversalPolicy()

    Returns the default FocusTraversalPolicy. Top-level components
    use this value on their creation to initialize their own focus traversal
    policy by explicit call to Container.setFocusTraversalPolicy.

    Returns:
    :   the default FocusTraversalPolicy. null will never be returned.

    See Also:
    :   - [`setDefaultFocusTraversalPolicy(java.awt.FocusTraversalPolicy)`](#setDefaultFocusTraversalPolicy(java.awt.FocusTraversalPolicy))
        - [`Container.setFocusTraversalPolicy(java.awt.FocusTraversalPolicy)`](Container.md#setFocusTraversalPolicy(java.awt.FocusTraversalPolicy))
        - [`Container.getFocusTraversalPolicy()`](Container.md#getFocusTraversalPolicy())
  + ### setDefaultFocusTraversalPolicy

    public void setDefaultFocusTraversalPolicy([FocusTraversalPolicy](FocusTraversalPolicy.md "class in java.awt") defaultPolicy)

    Sets the default FocusTraversalPolicy. Top-level components
    use this value on their creation to initialize their own focus traversal
    policy by explicit call to Container.setFocusTraversalPolicy.
    Note: this call doesn't affect already created components as they have
    their policy initialized. Only new components will use this policy as
    their default policy.

    Parameters:
    :   `defaultPolicy` - the new, default FocusTraversalPolicy

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if defaultPolicy is null

    See Also:
    :   - [`getDefaultFocusTraversalPolicy()`](#getDefaultFocusTraversalPolicy())
        - [`Container.setFocusTraversalPolicy(java.awt.FocusTraversalPolicy)`](Container.md#setFocusTraversalPolicy(java.awt.FocusTraversalPolicy))
        - [`Container.getFocusTraversalPolicy()`](Container.md#getFocusTraversalPolicy())
  + ### setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys

    public void setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int id,
    [Set](../../../java.base/java/util/Set.md "interface in java.util")<? extends [AWTKeyStroke](AWTKeyStroke.md "class in java.awt")> keystrokes)

    Sets the default focus traversal keys for a given traversal operation.
    This traversal key `Set` will be in effect on all
    `Window`s that have no such `Set` of
    their own explicitly defined. This `Set` will also be
    inherited, recursively, by any child `Component` of
    those `Windows` that has
    no such `Set` of its own explicitly defined.

    The default values for the default focus traversal keys are
    implementation-dependent. Sun recommends that all implementations for a
    particular native platform use the same default values. The
    recommendations for Windows and Unix are listed below. These
    recommendations are used in the Sun AWT implementations.

    Recommended default values for focus traversal keys

    | Identifier Meaning Default | | |
    | --- | --- | --- |
    | `KeyboardFocusManager.FORWARD_TRAVERSAL_KEYS` Normal forward keyboard traversal `TAB` on `KEY_PRESSED`, `CTRL-TAB` on `KEY_PRESSED`| `KeyboardFocusManager.BACKWARD_TRAVERSAL_KEYS` Normal reverse keyboard traversal `SHIFT-TAB` on `KEY_PRESSED`, `CTRL-SHIFT-TAB` on `KEY_PRESSED`| `KeyboardFocusManager.UP_CYCLE_TRAVERSAL_KEYS` Go up one focus traversal cycle none|  |  |  | | --- | --- | --- | | `KeyboardFocusManager.DOWN_CYCLE_TRAVERSAL_KEYS` Go down one focus traversal cycle none | | | | | | | | | | | |

    To disable a traversal key, use an empty `Set`;
    `Collections.EMPTY_SET` is recommended.

    Using the `AWTKeyStroke` API, client code can
    specify on which of two
    specific `KeyEvent`s, `KEY_PRESSED` or
    `KEY_RELEASED`, the focus traversal operation will
    occur. Regardless of which `KeyEvent` is specified,
    however, all `KeyEvent`s related to the focus
    traversal key, including the associated `KEY_TYPED`
    event, will be consumed, and will not be dispatched
    to any `Component`. It is a runtime error to
    specify a `KEY_TYPED` event as
    mapping to a focus traversal operation, or to map the same event to
    multiple default focus traversal operations.

    This method may throw a `ClassCastException` if any `Object`
    in `keystrokes` is not an `AWTKeyStroke`.

    Parameters:
    :   `id` - one of
        `KeyboardFocusManager.FORWARD_TRAVERSAL_KEYS`,
        `KeyboardFocusManager.BACKWARD_TRAVERSAL_KEYS`,
        `KeyboardFocusManager.UP_CYCLE_TRAVERSAL_KEYS`, or
        `KeyboardFocusManager.DOWN_CYCLE_TRAVERSAL_KEYS`
    :   `keystrokes` - the Set of `AWTKeyStroke`s for the
        specified operation

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if id is not one of
        `KeyboardFocusManager.FORWARD_TRAVERSAL_KEYS`,
        `KeyboardFocusManager.BACKWARD_TRAVERSAL_KEYS`,
        `KeyboardFocusManager.UP_CYCLE_TRAVERSAL_KEYS`, or
        `KeyboardFocusManager.DOWN_CYCLE_TRAVERSAL_KEYS`,
        or if keystrokes is `null`,
        or if keystrokes contains `null`,
        or if any keystroke
        represents a `KEY_TYPED` event,
        or if any keystroke already maps
        to another default focus traversal operation

    See Also:
    :   - [`getDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int)`](#getDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int))
        - [`Component.setFocusTraversalKeys(int, java.util.Set<? extends java.awt.AWTKeyStroke>)`](Component.md#setFocusTraversalKeys(int,java.util.Set))
        - [`Component.getFocusTraversalKeys(int)`](Component.md#getFocusTraversalKeys(int))
  + ### getDefaultFocusTraversalKeys

    public [Set](../../../java.base/java/util/Set.md "interface in java.util")<[AWTKeyStroke](AWTKeyStroke.md "class in java.awt")> getDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int id)

    Returns a Set of default focus traversal keys for a given traversal
    operation. This traversal key Set will be in effect on all Windows that
    have no such Set of their own explicitly defined. This Set will also be
    inherited, recursively, by any child Component of those Windows that has
    no such Set of its own explicitly defined. (See
    `setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys` for a full description of each
    operation.)

    Parameters:
    :   `id` - one of KeyboardFocusManager.FORWARD\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS,
        KeyboardFocusManager.BACKWARD\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS,
        KeyboardFocusManager.UP\_CYCLE\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS, or
        KeyboardFocusManager.DOWN\_CYCLE\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS

    Returns:
    :   the `Set` of `AWTKeyStroke`s
        for the specified operation; the `Set`
        will be unmodifiable, and may be empty; `null`
        will never be returned

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if id is not one of
        KeyboardFocusManager.FORWARD\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS,
        KeyboardFocusManager.BACKWARD\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS,
        KeyboardFocusManager.UP\_CYCLE\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS, or
        KeyboardFocusManager.DOWN\_CYCLE\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS

    See Also:
    :   - [`setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int, java.util.Set<? extends java.awt.AWTKeyStroke>)`](#setDefaultFocusTraversalKeys(int,java.util.Set))
        - [`Component.setFocusTraversalKeys(int, java.util.Set<? extends java.awt.AWTKeyStroke>)`](Component.md#setFocusTraversalKeys(int,java.util.Set))
        - [`Component.getFocusTraversalKeys(int)`](Component.md#getFocusTraversalKeys(int))
  + ### getCurrentFocusCycleRoot

    public [Container](Container.md "class in java.awt") getCurrentFocusCycleRoot()

    Returns the current focus cycle root, if the current focus cycle root is
    in the same context as the calling thread. If the focus owner is itself
    a focus cycle root, then it may be ambiguous as to which Components
    represent the next and previous Components to focus during normal focus
    traversal. In that case, the current focus cycle root is used to
    differentiate among the possibilities.

    This method is intended to be used only by KeyboardFocusManagers and
    focus implementations. It is not for general client use.

    Returns:
    :   the current focus cycle root, or null if the current focus cycle
        root is not a member of the calling thread's context

    See Also:
    :   - [`getGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot()`](#getGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot())
        - [`setGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot(java.awt.Container)`](#setGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot(java.awt.Container))
  + ### getGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot

    protected [Container](Container.md "class in java.awt") getGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot()
    throws [SecurityException](../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")

    Returns the current focus cycle root, even if the calling thread is in a
    different context than the current focus cycle root. If the focus owner
    is itself a focus cycle root, then it may be ambiguous as to which
    Components represent the next and previous Components to focus during
    normal focus traversal. In that case, the current focus cycle root is
    used to differentiate among the possibilities.

    Returns:
    :   the current focus cycle root, or null if the current focus cycle
        root is not a member of the calling thread's context

    Throws:
    :   `SecurityException` - if this KeyboardFocusManager is not the
        current KeyboardFocusManager for the calling thread's context
        and if the calling thread does not have "replaceKeyboardFocusManager"
        permission

    See Also:
    :   - [`getCurrentFocusCycleRoot()`](#getCurrentFocusCycleRoot())
        - [`setGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot(java.awt.Container)`](#setGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot(java.awt.Container))
  + ### setGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot

    public void setGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot([Container](Container.md "class in java.awt") newFocusCycleRoot)
    throws [SecurityException](../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")

    Sets the current focus cycle root. If the focus owner is itself a focus
    cycle root, then it may be ambiguous as to which Components represent
    the next and previous Components to focus during normal focus traversal.
    In that case, the current focus cycle root is used to differentiate
    among the possibilities.

    If a SecurityManager is installed, the calling thread must be granted
    the "replaceKeyboardFocusManager" AWTPermission. If this permission is
    not granted, this method will throw a SecurityException, and the current
    focus cycle root will not be changed.

    This method is intended to be used only by KeyboardFocusManagers and
    focus implementations. It is not for general client use.

    Parameters:
    :   `newFocusCycleRoot` - the new focus cycle root

    Throws:
    :   `SecurityException` - if the calling thread does not have
        "replaceKeyboardFocusManager" permission

    See Also:
    :   - [`getCurrentFocusCycleRoot()`](#getCurrentFocusCycleRoot())
        - [`getGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot()`](#getGlobalCurrentFocusCycleRoot())
  + ### addPropertyChangeListener

    public void addPropertyChangeListener([PropertyChangeListener](../beans/PropertyChangeListener.md "interface in java.beans") listener)

    Adds a PropertyChangeListener to the listener list. The listener is
    registered for all bound properties of this class, including the
    following:
    - whether the KeyboardFocusManager is currently managing focus
      for this application or applet's browser context
      ("managingFocus")
    - the focus owner ("focusOwner")
    - the permanent focus owner ("permanentFocusOwner")
    - the focused Window ("focusedWindow")
    - the active Window ("activeWindow")
    - the default focus traversal policy
      ("defaultFocusTraversalPolicy")
    - the Set of default FORWARD\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS
      ("forwardDefaultFocusTraversalKeys")
    - the Set of default BACKWARD\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS
      ("backwardDefaultFocusTraversalKeys")
    - the Set of default UP\_CYCLE\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS
      ("upCycleDefaultFocusTraversalKeys")
    - the Set of default DOWN\_CYCLE\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS
      ("downCycleDefaultFocusTraversalKeys")
    - the current focus cycle root ("currentFocusCycleRoot")If listener is null, no exception is thrown and no action is performed.

    Parameters:
    :   `listener` - the PropertyChangeListener to be added

    See Also:
    :   - [`removePropertyChangeListener(java.beans.PropertyChangeListener)`](#removePropertyChangeListener(java.beans.PropertyChangeListener))
        - [`getPropertyChangeListeners()`](#getPropertyChangeListeners())
        - [`addPropertyChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.PropertyChangeListener)`](#addPropertyChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.PropertyChangeListener))
  + ### removePropertyChangeListener

    public void removePropertyChangeListener([PropertyChangeListener](../beans/PropertyChangeListener.md "interface in java.beans") listener)

    Removes a PropertyChangeListener from the listener list. This method
    should be used to remove the PropertyChangeListeners that were
    registered for all bound properties of this class.

    If listener is null, no exception is thrown and no action is performed.

    Parameters:
    :   `listener` - the PropertyChangeListener to be removed

    See Also:
    :   - [`addPropertyChangeListener(java.beans.PropertyChangeListener)`](#addPropertyChangeListener(java.beans.PropertyChangeListener))
        - [`getPropertyChangeListeners()`](#getPropertyChangeListeners())
        - [`removePropertyChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.PropertyChangeListener)`](#removePropertyChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.PropertyChangeListener))
  + ### getPropertyChangeListeners

    public [PropertyChangeListener](../beans/PropertyChangeListener.md "interface in java.beans")[] getPropertyChangeListeners()

    Returns an array of all the property change listeners
    registered on this keyboard focus manager.

    Returns:
    :   all of this keyboard focus manager's
        `PropertyChangeListener`s
        or an empty array if no property change
        listeners are currently registered

    Since:
    :   1.4

    See Also:
    :   - [`addPropertyChangeListener(java.beans.PropertyChangeListener)`](#addPropertyChangeListener(java.beans.PropertyChangeListener))
        - [`removePropertyChangeListener(java.beans.PropertyChangeListener)`](#removePropertyChangeListener(java.beans.PropertyChangeListener))
        - [`getPropertyChangeListeners(java.lang.String)`](#getPropertyChangeListeners(java.lang.String))
  + ### addPropertyChangeListener

    public void addPropertyChangeListener([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") propertyName,
    [PropertyChangeListener](../beans/PropertyChangeListener.md "interface in java.beans") listener)

    Adds a PropertyChangeListener to the listener list for a specific
    property. The specified property may be user-defined, or one of the
    following:
    - whether the KeyboardFocusManager is currently managing focus
      for this application or applet's browser context
      ("managingFocus")
    - the focus owner ("focusOwner")
    - the permanent focus owner ("permanentFocusOwner")
    - the focused Window ("focusedWindow")
    - the active Window ("activeWindow")
    - the default focus traversal policy
      ("defaultFocusTraversalPolicy")
    - the Set of default FORWARD\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS
      ("forwardDefaultFocusTraversalKeys")
    - the Set of default BACKWARD\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS
      ("backwardDefaultFocusTraversalKeys")
    - the Set of default UP\_CYCLE\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS
      ("upCycleDefaultFocusTraversalKeys")
    - the Set of default DOWN\_CYCLE\_TRAVERSAL\_KEYS
      ("downCycleDefaultFocusTraversalKeys")
    - the current focus cycle root ("currentFocusCycleRoot")If listener is null, no exception is thrown and no action is performed.

    Parameters:
    :   `propertyName` - one of the property names listed above
    :   `listener` - the PropertyChangeListener to be added

    See Also:
    :   - [`addPropertyChangeListener(java.beans.PropertyChangeListener)`](#addPropertyChangeListener(java.beans.PropertyChangeListener))
        - [`removePropertyChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.PropertyChangeListener)`](#removePropertyChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.PropertyChangeListener))
        - [`getPropertyChangeListeners(java.lang.String)`](#getPropertyChangeListeners(java.lang.String))
  + ### removePropertyChangeListener

    public void removePropertyChangeListener([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") propertyName,
    [PropertyChangeListener](../beans/PropertyChangeListener.md "interface in java.beans") listener)

    Removes a PropertyChangeListener from the listener list for a specific
    property. This method should be used to remove PropertyChangeListeners
    that were registered for a specific bound property.

    If listener is null, no exception is thrown and no action is performed.

    Parameters:
    :   `propertyName` - a valid property name
    :   `listener` - the PropertyChangeListener to be removed

    See Also:
    :   - [`addPropertyChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.PropertyChangeListener)`](#addPropertyChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.PropertyChangeListener))
        - [`getPropertyChangeListeners(java.lang.String)`](#getPropertyChangeListeners(java.lang.String))
        - [`removePropertyChangeListener(java.beans.PropertyChangeListener)`](#removePropertyChangeListener(java.beans.PropertyChangeListener))
  + ### getPropertyChangeListeners

    public [PropertyChangeListener](../beans/PropertyChangeListener.md "interface in java.beans")[] getPropertyChangeListeners([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") propertyName)

    Returns an array of all the `PropertyChangeListener`s
    associated with the named property.

    Parameters:
    :   `propertyName` - the property name

    Returns:
    :   all of the `PropertyChangeListener`s associated with
        the named property or an empty array if no such listeners have
        been added.

    Since:
    :   1.4

    See Also:
    :   - [`addPropertyChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.PropertyChangeListener)`](#addPropertyChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.PropertyChangeListener))
        - [`removePropertyChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.PropertyChangeListener)`](#removePropertyChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.PropertyChangeListener))
  + ### firePropertyChange

    protected void firePropertyChange([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") propertyName,
    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") oldValue,
    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") newValue)

    Fires a PropertyChangeEvent in response to a change in a bound property.
    The event will be delivered to all registered PropertyChangeListeners.
    No event will be delivered if oldValue and newValue are the same.

    Parameters:
    :   `propertyName` - the name of the property that has changed
    :   `oldValue` - the property's previous value
    :   `newValue` - the property's new value
  + ### addVetoableChangeListener

    public void addVetoableChangeListener([VetoableChangeListener](../beans/VetoableChangeListener.md "interface in java.beans") listener)

    Adds a VetoableChangeListener to the listener list. The listener is
    registered for all vetoable properties of this class, including the
    following:
    - the focus owner ("focusOwner")
    - the permanent focus owner ("permanentFocusOwner")
    - the focused Window ("focusedWindow")
    - the active Window ("activeWindow")If listener is null, no exception is thrown and no action is performed.

    Parameters:
    :   `listener` - the VetoableChangeListener to be added

    See Also:
    :   - [`removeVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener)`](#removeVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener))
        - [`getVetoableChangeListeners()`](#getVetoableChangeListeners())
        - [`addVetoableChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.VetoableChangeListener)`](#addVetoableChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.VetoableChangeListener))
  + ### removeVetoableChangeListener

    public void removeVetoableChangeListener([VetoableChangeListener](../beans/VetoableChangeListener.md "interface in java.beans") listener)

    Removes a VetoableChangeListener from the listener list. This method
    should be used to remove the VetoableChangeListeners that were
    registered for all vetoable properties of this class.

    If listener is null, no exception is thrown and no action is performed.

    Parameters:
    :   `listener` - the VetoableChangeListener to be removed

    See Also:
    :   - [`addVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener)`](#addVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener))
        - [`getVetoableChangeListeners()`](#getVetoableChangeListeners())
        - [`removeVetoableChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.VetoableChangeListener)`](#removeVetoableChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.VetoableChangeListener))
  + ### getVetoableChangeListeners

    public [VetoableChangeListener](../beans/VetoableChangeListener.md "interface in java.beans")[] getVetoableChangeListeners()

    Returns an array of all the vetoable change listeners
    registered on this keyboard focus manager.

    Returns:
    :   all of this keyboard focus manager's
        `VetoableChangeListener`s
        or an empty array if no vetoable change
        listeners are currently registered

    Since:
    :   1.4

    See Also:
    :   - [`addVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener)`](#addVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener))
        - [`removeVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener)`](#removeVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener))
        - [`getVetoableChangeListeners(java.lang.String)`](#getVetoableChangeListeners(java.lang.String))
  + ### addVetoableChangeListener

    public void addVetoableChangeListener([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") propertyName,
    [VetoableChangeListener](../beans/VetoableChangeListener.md "interface in java.beans") listener)

    Adds a VetoableChangeListener to the listener list for a specific
    property. The specified property may be user-defined, or one of the
    following:
    - the focus owner ("focusOwner")
    - the permanent focus owner ("permanentFocusOwner")
    - the focused Window ("focusedWindow")
    - the active Window ("activeWindow")If listener is null, no exception is thrown and no action is performed.

    Parameters:
    :   `propertyName` - one of the property names listed above
    :   `listener` - the VetoableChangeListener to be added

    See Also:
    :   - [`addVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener)`](#addVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener))
        - [`removeVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener)`](#removeVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener))
        - [`getVetoableChangeListeners()`](#getVetoableChangeListeners())
  + ### removeVetoableChangeListener

    public void removeVetoableChangeListener([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") propertyName,
    [VetoableChangeListener](../beans/VetoableChangeListener.md "interface in java.beans") listener)

    Removes a VetoableChangeListener from the listener list for a specific
    property. This method should be used to remove VetoableChangeListeners
    that were registered for a specific bound property.

    If listener is null, no exception is thrown and no action is performed.

    Parameters:
    :   `propertyName` - a valid property name
    :   `listener` - the VetoableChangeListener to be removed

    See Also:
    :   - [`addVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener)`](#addVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener))
        - [`getVetoableChangeListeners()`](#getVetoableChangeListeners())
        - [`removeVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener)`](#removeVetoableChangeListener(java.beans.VetoableChangeListener))
  + ### getVetoableChangeListeners

    public [VetoableChangeListener](../beans/VetoableChangeListener.md "interface in java.beans")[] getVetoableChangeListeners([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") propertyName)

    Returns an array of all the `VetoableChangeListener`s
    associated with the named property.

    Parameters:
    :   `propertyName` - the property name

    Returns:
    :   all of the `VetoableChangeListener`s associated with
        the named property or an empty array if no such listeners have
        been added.

    Since:
    :   1.4

    See Also:
    :   - [`addVetoableChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.VetoableChangeListener)`](#addVetoableChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.VetoableChangeListener))
        - [`removeVetoableChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.VetoableChangeListener)`](#removeVetoableChangeListener(java.lang.String,java.beans.VetoableChangeListener))
        - [`getVetoableChangeListeners()`](#getVetoableChangeListeners())
  + ### fireVetoableChange

    protected void fireVetoableChange([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") propertyName,
    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") oldValue,
    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") newValue)
    throws [PropertyVetoException](../beans/PropertyVetoException.md "class in java.beans")

    Fires a PropertyChangeEvent in response to a change in a vetoable
    property. The event will be delivered to all registered
    VetoableChangeListeners. If a VetoableChangeListener throws a
    PropertyVetoException, a new event is fired reverting all
    VetoableChangeListeners to the old value and the exception is then
    rethrown. No event will be delivered if oldValue and newValue are the
    same.

    Parameters:
    :   `propertyName` - the name of the property that has changed
    :   `oldValue` - the property's previous value
    :   `newValue` - the property's new value

    Throws:
    :   `PropertyVetoException` - if a
        `VetoableChangeListener` threw
        `PropertyVetoException`
  + ### addKeyEventDispatcher

    public void addKeyEventDispatcher([KeyEventDispatcher](KeyEventDispatcher.md "interface in java.awt") dispatcher)

    Adds a KeyEventDispatcher to this KeyboardFocusManager's dispatcher
    chain. This KeyboardFocusManager will request that each
    KeyEventDispatcher dispatch KeyEvents generated by the user before
    finally dispatching the KeyEvent itself. KeyEventDispatchers will be
    notified in the order in which they were added. Notifications will halt
    as soon as one KeyEventDispatcher returns `true` from its
    `dispatchKeyEvent` method. There is no limit to the total
    number of KeyEventDispatchers which can be added, nor to the number of
    times which a particular KeyEventDispatcher instance can be added.

    If a null dispatcher is specified, no action is taken and no exception
    is thrown.

    In a multithreaded application, [`KeyEventDispatcher`](KeyEventDispatcher.md "interface in java.awt") behaves
    the same as other AWT listeners. See
    [AWT Threading Issues](doc-files/AWTThreadIssues.md#ListenersThreads) for more details.

    Parameters:
    :   `dispatcher` - the KeyEventDispatcher to add to the dispatcher chain

    See Also:
    :   - [`removeKeyEventDispatcher(java.awt.KeyEventDispatcher)`](#removeKeyEventDispatcher(java.awt.KeyEventDispatcher))
  + ### removeKeyEventDispatcher

    public void removeKeyEventDispatcher([KeyEventDispatcher](KeyEventDispatcher.md "interface in java.awt") dispatcher)

    Removes a KeyEventDispatcher which was previously added to this
    KeyboardFocusManager's dispatcher chain. This KeyboardFocusManager
    cannot itself be removed, unless it was explicitly re-registered via a
    call to `addKeyEventDispatcher`.

    If a null dispatcher is specified, if the specified dispatcher is not
    in the dispatcher chain, or if this KeyboardFocusManager is specified
    without having been explicitly re-registered, no action is taken and no
    exception is thrown.

    In a multithreaded application, [`KeyEventDispatcher`](KeyEventDispatcher.md "interface in java.awt") behaves
    the same as other AWT listeners. See
    [AWT Threading Issues](doc-files/AWTThreadIssues.md#ListenersThreads) for more details.

    Parameters:
    :   `dispatcher` - the KeyEventDispatcher to remove from the dispatcher
        chain

    See Also:
    :   - [`addKeyEventDispatcher(java.awt.KeyEventDispatcher)`](#addKeyEventDispatcher(java.awt.KeyEventDispatcher))
  + ### getKeyEventDispatchers

    protected [List](../../../java.base/java/util/List.md "interface in java.util")<[KeyEventDispatcher](KeyEventDispatcher.md "interface in java.awt")> getKeyEventDispatchers()

    Returns this KeyboardFocusManager's KeyEventDispatcher chain as a List.
    The List will not include this KeyboardFocusManager unless it was
    explicitly re-registered via a call to
    `addKeyEventDispatcher`. If no other KeyEventDispatchers are
    registered, implementations are free to return null or a List of length
    0. Client code should not assume one behavior over another, nor should
    it assume that the behavior, once established, will not change.

    Returns:
    :   a possibly null or empty List of KeyEventDispatchers

    See Also:
    :   - [`addKeyEventDispatcher(java.awt.KeyEventDispatcher)`](#addKeyEventDispatcher(java.awt.KeyEventDispatcher))
        - [`removeKeyEventDispatcher(java.awt.KeyEventDispatcher)`](#removeKeyEventDispatcher(java.awt.KeyEventDispatcher))
  + ### addKeyEventPostProcessor

    public void addKeyEventPostProcessor([KeyEventPostProcessor](KeyEventPostProcessor.md "interface in java.awt") processor)

    Adds a KeyEventPostProcessor to this KeyboardFocusManager's post-
    processor chain. After a KeyEvent has been dispatched to and handled by
    its target, KeyboardFocusManager will request that each
    KeyEventPostProcessor perform any necessary post-processing as part
    of the KeyEvent's final resolution. KeyEventPostProcessors
    will be notified in the order in which they were added; the current
    KeyboardFocusManager will be notified last. Notifications will halt
    as soon as one KeyEventPostProcessor returns `true` from its
    `postProcessKeyEvent` method. There is no limit to the
    total number of KeyEventPostProcessors that can be added, nor to the
    number of times that a particular KeyEventPostProcessor instance can be
    added.

    If a null post-processor is specified, no action is taken and no
    exception is thrown.

    In a multithreaded application, [`KeyEventPostProcessor`](KeyEventPostProcessor.md "interface in java.awt") behaves
    the same as other AWT listeners. See
    [AWT Threading Issues](doc-files/AWTThreadIssues.md#ListenersThreads) for more details.

    Parameters:
    :   `processor` - the KeyEventPostProcessor to add to the post-processor
        chain

    See Also:
    :   - [`removeKeyEventPostProcessor(java.awt.KeyEventPostProcessor)`](#removeKeyEventPostProcessor(java.awt.KeyEventPostProcessor))
  + ### removeKeyEventPostProcessor

    public void removeKeyEventPostProcessor([KeyEventPostProcessor](KeyEventPostProcessor.md "interface in java.awt") processor)

    Removes a previously added KeyEventPostProcessor from this
    KeyboardFocusManager's post-processor chain. This KeyboardFocusManager
    cannot itself be entirely removed from the chain. Only additional
    references added via `addKeyEventPostProcessor` can be
    removed.

    If a null post-processor is specified, if the specified post-processor
    is not in the post-processor chain, or if this KeyboardFocusManager is
    specified without having been explicitly added, no action is taken and
    no exception is thrown.

    In a multithreaded application, [`KeyEventPostProcessor`](KeyEventPostProcessor.md "interface in java.awt") behaves
    the same as other AWT listeners. See
    [AWT Threading Issues](doc-files/AWTThreadIssues.md#ListenersThreads) for more details.

    Parameters:
    :   `processor` - the KeyEventPostProcessor to remove from the post-
        processor chain

    See Also:
    :   - [`addKeyEventPostProcessor(java.awt.KeyEventPostProcessor)`](#addKeyEventPostProcessor(java.awt.KeyEventPostProcessor))
  + ### getKeyEventPostProcessors

    protected [List](../../../java.base/java/util/List.md "interface in java.util")<[KeyEventPostProcessor](KeyEventPostProcessor.md "interface in java.awt")> getKeyEventPostProcessors()

    Returns this KeyboardFocusManager's KeyEventPostProcessor chain as a
    List. The List will not include this KeyboardFocusManager unless it was
    explicitly added via a call to `addKeyEventPostProcessor`. If
    no KeyEventPostProcessors are registered, implementations are free to
    return null or a List of length 0. Client code should not assume one
    behavior over another, nor should it assume that the behavior, once
    established, will not change.

    Returns:
    :   a possibly null or empty List of KeyEventPostProcessors

    See Also:
    :   - [`addKeyEventPostProcessor(java.awt.KeyEventPostProcessor)`](#addKeyEventPostProcessor(java.awt.KeyEventPostProcessor))
        - [`removeKeyEventPostProcessor(java.awt.KeyEventPostProcessor)`](#removeKeyEventPostProcessor(java.awt.KeyEventPostProcessor))
  + ### dispatchEvent

    public abstract boolean dispatchEvent([AWTEvent](AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt") e)

    This method is called by the AWT event dispatcher requesting that the
    current KeyboardFocusManager dispatch the specified event on its behalf.
    It is expected that all KeyboardFocusManagers will dispatch all
    FocusEvents, all WindowEvents related to focus, and all KeyEvents.
    These events should be dispatched based on the KeyboardFocusManager's
    notion of the focus owner and the focused and active Windows, sometimes
    overriding the source of the specified AWTEvent. Dispatching must be
    done using `redispatchEvent` to prevent the AWT event
    dispatcher from recursively requesting that the KeyboardFocusManager
    dispatch the event again. If this method returns `false`,
    then the AWT event dispatcher will attempt to dispatch the event itself.

    Parameters:
    :   `e` - the AWTEvent to be dispatched

    Returns:
    :   `true` if this method dispatched the event;
        `false` otherwise

    See Also:
    :   - [`redispatchEvent(java.awt.Component, java.awt.AWTEvent)`](#redispatchEvent(java.awt.Component,java.awt.AWTEvent))
        - [`dispatchKeyEvent(java.awt.event.KeyEvent)`](#dispatchKeyEvent(java.awt.event.KeyEvent))
  + ### redispatchEvent

    public final void redispatchEvent([Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") target,
    [AWTEvent](AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt") e)

    Redispatches an AWTEvent in such a way that the AWT event dispatcher
    will not recursively request that the KeyboardFocusManager, or any
    installed KeyEventDispatchers, dispatch the event again. Client
    implementations of `dispatchEvent` and client-defined
    KeyEventDispatchers must call `redispatchEvent(target, e)`
    instead of `target.dispatchEvent(e)` to dispatch an event.

    This method is intended to be used only by KeyboardFocusManagers and
    KeyEventDispatchers. It is not for general client use.

    Parameters:
    :   `target` - the Component to which the event should be dispatched
    :   `e` - the event to dispatch

    See Also:
    :   - [`dispatchEvent(java.awt.AWTEvent)`](#dispatchEvent(java.awt.AWTEvent))
        - [`KeyEventDispatcher`](KeyEventDispatcher.md "interface in java.awt")
  + ### dispatchKeyEvent

    public abstract boolean dispatchKeyEvent([KeyEvent](event/KeyEvent.md "class in java.awt.event") e)

    Typically this method will be called by `dispatchEvent` if no
    other KeyEventDispatcher in the dispatcher chain dispatched the
    KeyEvent, or if no other KeyEventDispatchers are registered. If an
    implementation of this method returns `false`,
    `dispatchEvent` may try to dispatch the KeyEvent itself, or
    may simply return `false`. If `true` is returned,
    `dispatchEvent` should return `true` as well.

    Specified by:
    :   `dispatchKeyEvent` in interface `KeyEventDispatcher`

    Parameters:
    :   `e` - the KeyEvent which the current KeyboardFocusManager has
        requested that this KeyEventDispatcher dispatch

    Returns:
    :   `true` if the KeyEvent was dispatched;
        `false` otherwise

    See Also:
    :   - [`dispatchEvent(java.awt.AWTEvent)`](#dispatchEvent(java.awt.AWTEvent))
  + ### postProcessKeyEvent

    public abstract boolean postProcessKeyEvent([KeyEvent](event/KeyEvent.md "class in java.awt.event") e)

    This method will be called by `dispatchKeyEvent`.
    By default, this method will handle any unconsumed KeyEvents that
    map to an AWT `MenuShortcut` by consuming the event
    and activating the shortcut.

    Specified by:
    :   `postProcessKeyEvent` in interface `KeyEventPostProcessor`

    Parameters:
    :   `e` - the KeyEvent to post-process

    Returns:
    :   `true` to indicate that no other
        KeyEventPostProcessor will be notified of the KeyEvent.

    See Also:
    :   - [`dispatchKeyEvent(java.awt.event.KeyEvent)`](#dispatchKeyEvent(java.awt.event.KeyEvent))
        - [`MenuShortcut`](MenuShortcut.md "class in java.awt")
  + ### processKeyEvent

    public abstract void processKeyEvent([Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") focusedComponent,
    [KeyEvent](event/KeyEvent.md "class in java.awt.event") e)

    This method initiates a focus traversal operation if and only if the
    KeyEvent represents a focus traversal key for the specified
    focusedComponent. It is expected that focusedComponent is the current
    focus owner, although this need not be the case. If it is not,
    focus traversal will nevertheless proceed as if focusedComponent
    were the current focus owner.

    Parameters:
    :   `focusedComponent` - the Component that will be the basis for a focus
        traversal operation if the specified event represents a focus
        traversal key for the Component
    :   `e` - the event that may represent a focus traversal key
  + ### enqueueKeyEvents

    protected abstract void enqueueKeyEvents(long after,
    [Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") untilFocused)

    Called by the AWT to notify the KeyboardFocusManager that it should
    delay dispatching of KeyEvents until the specified Component becomes
    the focus owner. If client code requests a focus change, and the AWT
    determines that this request might be granted by the native windowing
    system, then the AWT will call this method. It is the responsibility of
    the KeyboardFocusManager to delay dispatching of KeyEvents with
    timestamps later than the specified time stamp until the specified
    Component receives a FOCUS\_GAINED event, or the AWT cancels the delay
    request by invoking `dequeueKeyEvents` or
    `discardKeyEvents`.

    Parameters:
    :   `after` - timestamp of current event, or the current, system time if
        the current event has no timestamp, or the AWT cannot determine
        which event is currently being handled
    :   `untilFocused` - Component which should receive a FOCUS\_GAINED event
        before any pending KeyEvents

    See Also:
    :   - [`dequeueKeyEvents(long, java.awt.Component)`](#dequeueKeyEvents(long,java.awt.Component))
        - [`discardKeyEvents(java.awt.Component)`](#discardKeyEvents(java.awt.Component))
  + ### dequeueKeyEvents

    protected abstract void dequeueKeyEvents(long after,
    [Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") untilFocused)

    Called by the AWT to notify the KeyboardFocusManager that it should
    cancel delayed dispatching of KeyEvents. All KeyEvents which were
    enqueued because of a call to `enqueueKeyEvents` with the
    same timestamp and Component should be released for normal dispatching
    to the current focus owner. If the given timestamp is less than zero,
    the outstanding enqueue request for the given Component with the **oldest** timestamp (if any) should be cancelled.

    Parameters:
    :   `after` - the timestamp specified in the call to
        `enqueueKeyEvents`, or any value < 0
    :   `untilFocused` - the Component specified in the call to
        `enqueueKeyEvents`

    See Also:
    :   - [`enqueueKeyEvents(long, java.awt.Component)`](#enqueueKeyEvents(long,java.awt.Component))
        - [`discardKeyEvents(java.awt.Component)`](#discardKeyEvents(java.awt.Component))
  + ### discardKeyEvents

    protected abstract void discardKeyEvents([Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") comp)

    Called by the AWT to notify the KeyboardFocusManager that it should
    cancel delayed dispatching of KeyEvents. All KeyEvents which were
    enqueued because of one or more calls to `enqueueKeyEvents`
    with the same Component should be discarded.

    Parameters:
    :   `comp` - the Component specified in one or more calls to
        `enqueueKeyEvents`

    See Also:
    :   - [`enqueueKeyEvents(long, java.awt.Component)`](#enqueueKeyEvents(long,java.awt.Component))
        - [`dequeueKeyEvents(long, java.awt.Component)`](#dequeueKeyEvents(long,java.awt.Component))
  + ### focusNextComponent

    public abstract void focusNextComponent([Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") aComponent)

    Focuses the Component after aComponent, typically based on a
    FocusTraversalPolicy.

    Parameters:
    :   `aComponent` - the Component that is the basis for the focus
        traversal operation

    See Also:
    :   - [`FocusTraversalPolicy`](FocusTraversalPolicy.md "class in java.awt")
  + ### focusPreviousComponent

    public abstract void focusPreviousComponent([Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") aComponent)

    Focuses the Component before aComponent, typically based on a
    FocusTraversalPolicy.

    Parameters:
    :   `aComponent` - the Component that is the basis for the focus
        traversal operation

    See Also:
    :   - [`FocusTraversalPolicy`](FocusTraversalPolicy.md "class in java.awt")
  + ### upFocusCycle

    public abstract void upFocusCycle([Component](Component.md "class in java.awt") aComponent)

    Moves the focus up one focus traversal cycle. Typically, the focus owner
    is set to aComponent's focus cycle root, and the current focus cycle
    root is set to the new focus owner's focus cycle root. If, however,
    aComponent's focus cycle root is a Window, then typically the focus
    owner is set to the Window's default Component to focus, and the current
    focus cycle root is unchanged.

    Parameters:
    :   `aComponent` - the Component that is the basis for the focus
        traversal operation
  + ### downFocusCycle

    public abstract void downFocusCycle([Container](Container.md "class in java.awt") aContainer)

    Moves the focus down one focus traversal cycle. Typically, if
    aContainer is a focus cycle root, then the focus owner is set to
    aContainer's default Component to focus, and the current focus cycle
    root is set to aContainer. If aContainer is not a focus cycle root, then
    no focus traversal operation occurs.

    Parameters:
    :   `aContainer` - the Container that is the basis for the focus
        traversal operation
  + ### focusNextComponent

    public final void focusNextComponent()

    Focuses the Component after the current focus owner.
  + ### focusPreviousComponent

    public final void focusPreviousComponent()

    Focuses the Component before the current focus owner.
  + ### upFocusCycle

    public final void upFocusCycle()

    Moves the focus up one focus traversal cycle from the current focus
    owner. Typically, the new focus owner is set to the current focus
    owner's focus cycle root, and the current focus cycle root is set to the
    new focus owner's focus cycle root. If, however, the current focus
    owner's focus cycle root is a Window, then typically the focus owner is
    set to the focus cycle root's default Component to focus, and the
    current focus cycle root is unchanged.
  + ### downFocusCycle

    public final void downFocusCycle()

    Moves the focus down one focus traversal cycle from the current focus
    owner, if and only if the current focus owner is a Container that is a
    focus cycle root. Typically, the focus owner is set to the current focus
    owner's default Component to focus, and the current focus cycle root is
    set to the current focus owner. If the current focus owner is not a
    Container that is a focus cycle root, then no focus traversal operation
    occurs.