Moduleô [java.desktop](../../../module-summary.md)

Packageô [javax.sound.sampled](package-summary.md)

# Class LineEvent

[java.lang.Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

[java.util.EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

javax.sound.sampled.LineEvent

All Implemented Interfaces:
:   `Serializable`

---

public class LineEvent
extends [EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

The `LineEvent` class encapsulates information that a line sends its
listeners whenever the line opens, closes, starts, or stops. Each of these
four state changes is represented by a corresponding type of event. A
listener receives the event as a parameter to its
[`update`](LineListener.md#update(javax.sound.sampled.LineEvent)) method. By querying the event, the
listener can learn the type of event, the line responsible for the event, and
how much data the line had processed when the event occurred.

Although this class implements Serializable, attempts to serialize a
`LineEvent` object will fail.

Since:
:   1.3

See Also:
:   * [`Line`](Line.md "interface in javax.sound.sampled")
    * [`LineListener.update(javax.sound.sampled.LineEvent)`](LineListener.md#update(javax.sound.sampled.LineEvent))

* ## Nested Class Summary

  Nested Classes

  Modifier and Type

  Class

  Description

  `static class`

  `LineEvent.Type`

  The LineEvent.Type inner class identifies what kind of event occurred on
  a line.
* ## Field Summary

  ### Fields inherited from classô java.util.[EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

  `source`
* ## Constructor Summary

  Constructors

  Constructor

  Description

  `LineEvent(Lineô line,
  LineEvent.Typeô type,
  longô position)`

  Constructs a new event of the specified type, originating from the
  specified line.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsConcrete Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `final long`

  `getFramePosition()`

  Obtains the position in the line's audio data when the event occurred,
  expressed in sample frames.

  `final Line`

  `getLine()`

  Obtains the audio line that is the source of this event.

  `final LineEvent.Type`

  `getType()`

  Obtains the event's type.

  `String`

  `toString()`

  Returns a string representation of the event.

  ### Methods inherited from classô java.util.[EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

  `getSource`

  ### Methods inherited from classô java.lang.[Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `clone, equals, finalize, getClass, hashCode, notify, notifyAll, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Constructor Details

  + ### LineEvent

    publicô LineEvent([Line](Line.md "interface in javax.sound.sampled")ô line,
    [LineEvent.Type](LineEvent.Type.md "class in javax.sound.sampled")ô type,
    longô position)

    Constructs a new event of the specified type, originating from the
    specified line.

    Parameters:
    :   `line` - the source of this event
    :   `type` - the event type (`OPEN`, `CLOSE`, `START`,
        or `STOP`)
    :   `position` - the number of sample frames that the line had already
        processed when the event occurred, or
        [`AudioSystem.NOT_SPECIFIED`](AudioSystem.md#NOT_SPECIFIED)

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `line` is `null`
* ## Method Details

  + ### getLine

    public finalô [Line](Line.md "interface in javax.sound.sampled")ô getLine()

    Obtains the audio line that is the source of this event.

    Returns:
    :   the line responsible for this event
  + ### getType

    public finalô [LineEvent.Type](LineEvent.Type.md "class in javax.sound.sampled")ô getType()

    Obtains the event's type.

    Returns:
    :   this event's type ([`LineEvent.Type.OPEN`](LineEvent.Type.md#OPEN), [`LineEvent.Type.CLOSE`](LineEvent.Type.md#CLOSE),
        [`LineEvent.Type.START`](LineEvent.Type.md#START), or [`LineEvent.Type.STOP`](LineEvent.Type.md#STOP))
  + ### getFramePosition

    public finalô longô getFramePosition()

    Obtains the position in the line's audio data when the event occurred,
    expressed in sample frames. For example, if a source line had already
    played back 14 sample frames at the time it was paused, the pause event
    would report the line's position as 14. The next frame to be processed
    would be frame number 14 using zero-based numbering, or 15 using
    one-based numbering.

    Note that this field is relevant only to certain events generated by data
    lines, such as `START` and `STOP`. For events generated by
    lines that do not count sample frames, and for any other events for which
    this value is not known, the position value should be
    [`AudioSystem.NOT_SPECIFIED`](AudioSystem.md#NOT_SPECIFIED).

    Returns:
    :   the line's position as a sample frame number
  + ### toString

    publicô [String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang")ô toString()

    Returns a string representation of the event.

    Overrides:
    :   `toString`ô in classô `EventObject`

    Returns:
    :   a string representation of the event