Module [java.sql](../../module-summary.md)

Package [javax.sql](package-summary.md)

# Interface ConnectionEventListener

All Superinterfaces:
:   `EventListener`

---

public interface ConnectionEventListener
extends [EventListener](../../../java.base/java/util/EventListener.md "interface in java.util")

An object that registers to be notified of events generated by a
`PooledConnection` object.

The `ConnectionEventListener` interface is implemented by a
connection pooling component. A connection pooling component will
usually be provided by a JDBC driver vendor or another system software
vendor. A JDBC driver notifies a `ConnectionEventListener`
object when an application is finished using a pooled connection with
which the listener has registered. The notification
occurs after the application calls the method `close` on
its representation of a `PooledConnection` object. A
`ConnectionEventListener` is also notified when a
connection error occurs due to the fact that the `PooledConnection`
is unfit for future use---the server has crashed, for example.
The listener is notified by the JDBC driver just before the driver throws an
`SQLException` to the application using the
`PooledConnection` object.

Since:
:   1.4

* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsAbstract Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `void`

  `connectionClosed(ConnectionEvent event)`

  Notifies this `ConnectionEventListener` that
  the application has called the method `close` on its
  representation of a pooled connection.

  `void`

  `connectionErrorOccurred(ConnectionEvent event)`

  Notifies this `ConnectionEventListener` that
  a fatal error has occurred and the pooled connection can
  no longer be used.

* ## Method Details

  + ### connectionClosed

    void connectionClosed([ConnectionEvent](ConnectionEvent.md "class in javax.sql") event)

    Notifies this `ConnectionEventListener` that
    the application has called the method `close` on its
    representation of a pooled connection.

    Parameters:
    :   `event` - an event object describing the source of
        the event
  + ### connectionErrorOccurred

    void connectionErrorOccurred([ConnectionEvent](ConnectionEvent.md "class in javax.sql") event)

    Notifies this `ConnectionEventListener` that
    a fatal error has occurred and the pooled connection can
    no longer be used. The driver makes this notification just
    before it throws the application the `SQLException`
    contained in the given `ConnectionEvent` object.

    Parameters:
    :   `event` - an event object describing the source of
        the event and containing the `SQLException` that the
        driver is about to throw