Module [java.base](../../module-summary.md)

Package [javax.crypto](package-summary.md)

# Class KEM.Decapsulator

[java.lang.Object](../../java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

javax.crypto.KEM.Decapsulator

Enclosing class:
:   `KEM`

---

public static final class KEM.Decapsulator
extends [Object](../../java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

A decapsulator, generated by [`KEM.newDecapsulator(java.security.PrivateKey)`](KEM.md#newDecapsulator(java.security.PrivateKey)) on the KEM
receiver side.

This class represents the key decapsulation function of a KEM.
An invocation of the `decapsulate` method recovers the
secret key from the key encapsulation message.

Since:
:   21

* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsConcrete Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `SecretKey`

  `decapsulate(byte[] encapsulation)`

  The key decapsulation function.

  `SecretKey`

  `decapsulate(byte[] encapsulation,
  int from,
  int to,
  String algorithm)`

  The key decapsulation function.

  `int`

  `encapsulationSize()`

  Returns the size of the key encapsulation message.

  `String`

  `providerName()`

  Returns the name of the provider.

  `int`

  `secretSize()`

  Returns the size of the shared secret.

  ### Methods inherited from class java.lang.[Object](../../java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `clone, equals, finalize, getClass, hashCode, notify, notifyAll, toString, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Method Details

  + ### providerName

    public [String](../../java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") providerName()

    Returns the name of the provider.

    Returns:
    :   the name of the provider
  + ### decapsulate

    public [SecretKey](SecretKey.md "interface in javax.crypto") decapsulate(byte[] encapsulation)
    throws [DecapsulateException](DecapsulateException.md "class in javax.crypto")

    The key decapsulation function.

    This method is equivalent to
    `decapsulate(encapsulation, 0, secretSize(), "Generic")`. This
    combination of arguments must be supported by every implementation.

    The generated secret key is usually passed to a key derivation
    function (KDF) as the input keying material.

    Parameters:
    :   `encapsulation` - the key encapsulation message from the sender.
        The size must be equal to the value returned by
        [`encapsulationSize()`](#encapsulationSize()), or a `DecapsulateException`
        will be thrown.

    Returns:
    :   the shared secret as a `SecretKey` with
        an algorithm name of "Generic"

    Throws:
    :   `DecapsulateException` - if an error occurs during the
        decapsulation process
    :   `NullPointerException` - if `encapsulation` is `null`
  + ### decapsulate

    public [SecretKey](SecretKey.md "interface in javax.crypto") decapsulate(byte[] encapsulation,
    int from,
    int to,
    [String](../../java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") algorithm)
    throws [DecapsulateException](DecapsulateException.md "class in javax.crypto")

    The key decapsulation function.

    An invocation of this method recovers the secret key from the key
    encapsulation message.

    An implementation may choose to not support arbitrary combinations
    of `from`, `to`, and `algorithm`.

    Parameters:
    :   `encapsulation` - the key encapsulation message from the sender.
        The size must be equal to the value returned by
        [`encapsulationSize()`](#encapsulationSize()), or a `DecapsulateException`
        will be thrown.
    :   `from` - the initial index of the shared secret byte array
        to be returned, inclusive
    :   `to` - the final index of the shared secret byte array
        to be returned, exclusive
    :   `algorithm` - the algorithm name for the secret key that is returned

    Returns:
    :   a portion of the shared secret as a `SecretKey`
        containing the bytes of the secret ranging from `from`
        to `to`, exclusive, and an algorithm name as specified.
        For example, `decapsulate(encapsulation, secretSize()
        - 16, secretSize(), "AES")` uses the last 16 bytes
        of the shared secret as a 128-bit AES key.

    Throws:
    :   `DecapsulateException` - if an error occurs during the
        decapsulation process
    :   `IndexOutOfBoundsException` - if `from < 0`,
        `from > to`, or `to > secretSize()`
    :   `NullPointerException` - if `encapsulation` or
        `algorithm` is `null`
    :   `UnsupportedOperationException` - if the combination of
        `from`, `to`, and `algorithm`
        is not supported by the decapsulator
  + ### secretSize

    public int secretSize()

    Returns the size of the shared secret.

    This method can be called to find out the length of the shared secret
    before `decapsulate` is called or if the obtained
    `SecretKey` is not extractable.

    Returns:
    :   the size of the shared secret
  + ### encapsulationSize

    public int encapsulationSize()

    Returns the size of the key encapsulation message.

    This method can be used to extract the encapsulation message
    from a longer byte array if no length information is provided
    by a higher level protocol.

    Returns:
    :   the size of the key encapsulation message