Moduleô [java.base](../../module-summary.md)

Packageô [javax.crypto](package-summary.md)

# Class KEM.Encapsulator

[java.lang.Object](../../java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

javax.crypto.KEM.Encapsulator

Enclosing class:
:   `KEM`

---

public static final class KEM.Encapsulator
extends [Object](../../java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

An encapsulator, generated by [`KEM.newEncapsulator(java.security.PublicKey)`](KEM.md#newEncapsulator(java.security.PublicKey)) on the KEM
sender side.

This class represents the key encapsulation function of a KEM.
Each invocation of the `encapsulate` method generates a
new secret key and key encapsulation message that is returned
in an [`KEM.Encapsulated`](KEM.Encapsulated.md "class in javax.crypto") object.

Since:
:   21

* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsConcrete Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `KEM.Encapsulated`

  `encapsulate()`

  The key encapsulation function.

  `KEM.Encapsulated`

  `encapsulate(intô from,
  intô to,
  Stringô algorithm)`

  The key encapsulation function.

  `int`

  `encapsulationSize()`

  Returns the size of the key encapsulation message.

  `String`

  `providerName()`

  Returns the name of the provider.

  `int`

  `secretSize()`

  Returns the size of the shared secret.

  ### Methods inherited from classô java.lang.[Object](../../java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `clone, equals, finalize, getClass, hashCode, notify, notifyAll, toString, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Method Details

  + ### providerName

    publicô [String](../../java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang")ô providerName()

    Returns the name of the provider.

    Returns:
    :   the name of the provider
  + ### encapsulate

    publicô [KEM.Encapsulated](KEM.Encapsulated.md "class in javax.crypto")ô encapsulate()

    The key encapsulation function.

    This method is equivalent to
    `encapsulate(0, secretSize(), "Generic")`. This combination
    of arguments must be supported by every implementation.

    The generated secret key is usually passed to a key derivation
    function (KDF) as the input keying material.

    Returns:
    :   a [`KEM.Encapsulated`](KEM.Encapsulated.md "class in javax.crypto") object containing the shared
        secret, key encapsulation message, and optional parameters.
        The shared secret is a `SecretKey` containing all of
        the bytes of the secret, and an algorithm name of "Generic".
  + ### encapsulate

    publicô [KEM.Encapsulated](KEM.Encapsulated.md "class in javax.crypto")ô encapsulate(intô from,
    intô to,
    [String](../../java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang")ô algorithm)

    The key encapsulation function.

    Each invocation of this method generates a new secret key and key
    encapsulation message that is returned in an [`KEM.Encapsulated`](KEM.Encapsulated.md "class in javax.crypto") object.

    An implementation may choose to not support arbitrary combinations
    of `from`, `to`, and `algorithm`.

    Parameters:
    :   `from` - the initial index of the shared secret byte array
        to be returned, inclusive
    :   `to` - the final index of the shared secret byte array
        to be returned, exclusive
    :   `algorithm` - the algorithm name for the secret key that is returned

    Returns:
    :   a [`KEM.Encapsulated`](KEM.Encapsulated.md "class in javax.crypto") object containing a portion of
        the shared secret, key encapsulation message, and optional
        parameters. The portion of the shared secret is a
        `SecretKey` containing the bytes of the secret
        ranging from `from` to `to`, exclusive,
        and an algorithm name as specified. For example,
        `encapsulate(0, 16, "AES")` uses the first 16 bytes
        of the shared secret as a 128-bit AES key.

    Throws:
    :   `IndexOutOfBoundsException` - if `from < 0`,
        `from > to`, or `to > secretSize()`
    :   `NullPointerException` - if `algorithm` is `null`
    :   `UnsupportedOperationException` - if the combination of
        `from`, `to`, and `algorithm`
        is not supported by the encapsulator
  + ### secretSize

    publicô intô secretSize()

    Returns the size of the shared secret.

    This method can be called to find out the length of the shared secret
    before `encapsulate` is called or if the obtained
    `SecretKey` is not extractable.

    Returns:
    :   the size of the shared secret
  + ### encapsulationSize

    publicô intô encapsulationSize()

    Returns the size of the key encapsulation message.

    This method can be called to find out the length of the encapsulation
    message before `encapsulate` is called.

    Returns:
    :   the size of the key encapsulation message