Module [java.base](../../module-summary.md)

Package [javax.crypto](package-summary.md)

# Interface KEMSpi.DecapsulatorSpi

Enclosing interface:
:   `KEMSpi`

---

public static interface KEMSpi.DecapsulatorSpi

The KEM decapsulator implementation, generated by
[`KEMSpi.engineNewDecapsulator(java.security.PrivateKey, java.security.spec.AlgorithmParameterSpec)`](KEMSpi.md#engineNewDecapsulator(java.security.PrivateKey,java.security.spec.AlgorithmParameterSpec)) on the KEM receiver side.

Since:
:   21

See Also:
:   * [`KEM.Decapsulator`](KEM.Decapsulator.md "class in javax.crypto")

* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsAbstract Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `SecretKey`

  `engineDecapsulate(byte[] encapsulation,
  int from,
  int to,
  String algorithm)`

  The key decapsulation function.

  `int`

  `engineEncapsulationSize()`

  Returns the size of the key encapsulation message.

  `int`

  `engineSecretSize()`

  Returns the size of the shared secret.

* ## Method Details

  + ### engineDecapsulate

    [SecretKey](SecretKey.md "interface in javax.crypto") engineDecapsulate(byte[] encapsulation,
    int from,
    int to,
    [String](../../java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") algorithm)
    throws [DecapsulateException](DecapsulateException.md "class in javax.crypto")

    The key decapsulation function.

    An invocation of this method recovers the secret key from the key
    encapsulation message.

    An implementation must support the case where `from` is 0,
    `to` is the same as the return value of `secretSize()`,
    and `algorithm` is "Generic".

    Parameters:
    :   `encapsulation` - the key encapsulation message from the sender.
        The size must be equal to the value returned by
        [`engineEncapsulationSize()`](#engineEncapsulationSize()) ()}, or a
        `DecapsulateException` must be thrown.
    :   `from` - the initial index of the shared secret byte array
        to be returned, inclusive
    :   `to` - the final index of the shared secret byte array
        to be returned, exclusive
    :   `algorithm` - the algorithm name for the secret key that is returned

    Returns:
    :   a portion of the shared secret as a `SecretKey` with
        the specified algorithm

    Throws:
    :   `DecapsulateException` - if an error occurs during the
        decapsulation process
    :   `IndexOutOfBoundsException` - if `from < 0`,
        `from > to`, or `to > secretSize()`
    :   `NullPointerException` - if `encapsulation` or
        `algorithm` is `null`
    :   `UnsupportedOperationException` - if the combination of
        `from`, `to`, and `algorithm`
        is not supported by the decapsulator

    See Also:
    :   - [`KEM.Decapsulator.decapsulate(byte[], int, int, String)`](KEM.Decapsulator.md#decapsulate(byte%5B%5D,int,int,java.lang.String))
  + ### engineSecretSize

    int engineSecretSize()

    Returns the size of the shared secret.

    Returns:
    :   the size of the shared secret as a finite non-negative integer

    See Also:
    :   - [`KEM.Decapsulator.secretSize()`](KEM.Decapsulator.md#secretSize())
  + ### engineEncapsulationSize

    int engineEncapsulationSize()

    Returns the size of the key encapsulation message.

    Returns:
    :   the size of the key encapsulation message as a finite non-negative integer

    See Also:
    :   - [`KEM.Decapsulator.encapsulationSize()`](KEM.Decapsulator.md#encapsulationSize())