Module [java.base](../../module-summary.md)

Package [javax.crypto](package-summary.md)

# Interface KEMSpi.EncapsulatorSpi

Enclosing interface:
:   `KEMSpi`

---

public static interface KEMSpi.EncapsulatorSpi

The KEM encapsulator implementation, generated by
[`KEMSpi.engineNewEncapsulator(java.security.PublicKey, java.security.spec.AlgorithmParameterSpec, java.security.SecureRandom)`](KEMSpi.md#engineNewEncapsulator(java.security.PublicKey,java.security.spec.AlgorithmParameterSpec,java.security.SecureRandom)) on the KEM sender side.

Since:
:   21

See Also:
:   * [`KEM.Encapsulator`](KEM.Encapsulator.md "class in javax.crypto")

* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsAbstract Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `KEM.Encapsulated`

  `engineEncapsulate(int from,
  int to,
  String algorithm)`

  The key encapsulation function.

  `int`

  `engineEncapsulationSize()`

  Returns the size of the key encapsulation message.

  `int`

  `engineSecretSize()`

  Returns the size of the shared secret.

* ## Method Details

  + ### engineEncapsulate

    [KEM.Encapsulated](KEM.Encapsulated.md "class in javax.crypto") engineEncapsulate(int from,
    int to,
    [String](../../java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") algorithm)

    The key encapsulation function.

    Each invocation of this method must generate a new secret key and key
    encapsulation message that is returned in an [`KEM.Encapsulated`](KEM.Encapsulated.md "class in javax.crypto") object.

    An implementation must support the case where `from` is 0,
    `to` is the same as the return value of `secretSize()`,
    and `algorithm` is "Generic".

    Parameters:
    :   `from` - the initial index of the shared secret byte array
        to be returned, inclusive
    :   `to` - the final index of the shared secret byte array
        to be returned, exclusive
    :   `algorithm` - the algorithm name for the secret key that is returned

    Returns:
    :   an [`KEM.Encapsulated`](KEM.Encapsulated.md "class in javax.crypto") object containing a portion of
        the shared secret as a key with the specified algorithm,
        key encapsulation message, and optional parameters.

    Throws:
    :   `IndexOutOfBoundsException` - if `from < 0`,
        `from > to`, or `to > secretSize()`
    :   `NullPointerException` - if `algorithm` is `null`
    :   `UnsupportedOperationException` - if the combination of
        `from`, `to`, and `algorithm`
        is not supported by the encapsulator

    See Also:
    :   - [`KEM.Encapsulated`](KEM.Encapsulated.md "class in javax.crypto")
        - [`KEM.Encapsulator.encapsulate(int, int, String)`](KEM.Encapsulator.md#encapsulate(int,int,java.lang.String))
  + ### engineSecretSize

    int engineSecretSize()

    Returns the size of the shared secret.

    Returns:
    :   the size of the shared secret as a finite non-negative integer

    See Also:
    :   - [`KEM.Encapsulator.secretSize()`](KEM.Encapsulator.md#secretSize())
  + ### engineEncapsulationSize

    int engineEncapsulationSize()

    Returns the size of the key encapsulation message.

    Returns:
    :   the size of the key encapsulation message as a finite non-negative integer

    See Also:
    :   - [`KEM.Encapsulator.encapsulationSize()`](KEM.Encapsulator.md#encapsulationSize())