Module [java.naming](../../module-summary.md)

Package [javax.naming](package-summary.md)

# Interface Context

All Known Subinterfaces:
:   `DirContext`, `EventContext`, `EventDirContext`, `LdapContext`

All Known Implementing Classes:
:   `InitialContext`, `InitialDirContext`, `InitialLdapContext`

---

public interface Context

This interface represents a naming context, which
consists of a set of name-to-object bindings.
It contains methods for examining and updating these bindings.

## Names

Each name passed as an argument to a `Context` method is relative
to that context. The empty name is used to name the context itself.
A name parameter may never be null.

Most of the methods have overloaded versions with one taking a
`Name` parameter and one taking a `String`.
These overloaded versions are equivalent in that if
the `Name` and `String` parameters are just
different representations of the same name, then the overloaded
versions of the same methods behave the same.
In the method descriptions below, only one version is fully documented.
The second version instead has a link to the first: the same
documentation applies to both.

For systems that support federation, `String` name arguments to
`Context` methods are composite names. Name arguments that are
instances of `CompositeName` are treated as composite names,
while `Name` arguments that are not instances of
`CompositeName` are treated as compound names (which might be
instances of `CompoundName` or other implementations of compound
names). This allows the results of `NameParser.parse()` to be used as
arguments to the `Context` methods.
Prior to JNDI 1.2, all name arguments were treated as composite names.

Furthermore, for systems that support federation, all names returned
in a `NamingEnumeration`
from `list()` and `listBindings()` are composite names
represented as strings.
See `CompositeName` for the string syntax of names.

For systems that do not support federation, the name arguments (in
either `Name` or `String` forms) and the names returned in
`NamingEnumeration` may be names in their own namespace rather than
names in a composite namespace, at the discretion of the service
provider.

## Exceptions

All the methods in this interface can throw a `NamingException` or
any of its subclasses. See `NamingException` and their subclasses
for details on each exception.

## Concurrent Access

A Context instance is not guaranteed to be synchronized against
concurrent access by multiple threads. Threads that need to access
a single Context instance concurrently should synchronize amongst
themselves and provide the necessary locking. Multiple threads
each manipulating a different Context instance need not
synchronize. Note that the [`lookup`](#lookup(javax.naming.Name))
method, when passed an empty name, will return a new Context instance
representing the same naming context.

For purposes of concurrency control,
a Context operation that returns a `NamingEnumeration` is
not considered to have completed while the enumeration is still in
use, or while any referrals generated by that operation are still
being followed.

## Parameters

A `Name` parameter passed to any method of the
`Context` interface or one of its subinterfaces
will not be modified by the service provider.
The service provider may keep a reference to it
for the duration of the operation, including any enumeration of the
method's results and the processing of any referrals generated.
The caller should not modify the object during this time.
A `Name` returned by any such method is owned by the caller.
The caller may subsequently modify it; the service provider may not.

## Environment Properties

JNDI applications need a way to communicate various preferences
and properties that define the environment in which naming and
directory services are accessed. For example, a context might
require specification of security credentials in order to access
the service. Another context might require that server configuration
information be supplied. These are referred to as the *environment*
of a context. The `Context` interface provides methods for
retrieving and updating this environment.

The environment is inherited from the parent context as
context methods proceed from one context to the next. Changes to
the environment of one context do not directly affect those
of other contexts.

It is implementation-dependent when environment properties are used
and/or verified for validity. For example, some of the
security-related properties are used by service providers to "log in"
to the directory. This login process might occur at the time the
context is created, or the first time a method is invoked on the
context. When, and whether this occurs at all, is
implementation-dependent. When environment properties are added or
removed from the context, verifying the validity of the changes is again
implementation-dependent. For example, verification of some properties
might occur at the time the change is made, or at the time the next
operation is performed on the context, or not at all.

Any object with a reference to a context may examine that context's
environment. Sensitive information such as clear-text
passwords should not be stored there unless the implementation is
known to protect it.

## Resource Files

To simplify the task of setting up the environment
required by a JNDI application,
application components and service providers may be distributed
along with *resource files.*
A JNDI resource file is a file in the properties file format (see
[`java.util.Properties`](../../../java.base/java/util/Properties.md#load(java.io.Reader))),
containing a list of key/value pairs.
The key is the name of the property (e.g. "java.naming.factory.object")
and the value is a string in the format defined
for that property. Here is an example of a JNDI resource file:
> `java.naming.factory.object=com.sun.jndi.ldap.AttrsToCorba:com.wiz.from.Person
> java.naming.factory.state=com.sun.jndi.ldap.CorbaToAttrs:com.wiz.from.Person
> java.naming.factory.control=com.sun.jndi.ldap.ResponseControlFactory`

The JNDI class library reads the resource files and makes the property
values freely available. Thus JNDI resource files should be considered
to be "world readable", and sensitive information such as clear-text
passwords should not be stored there.

There are two kinds of JNDI resource files:
*provider* and *application*.

### Provider Resource Files

Each service provider has an optional resource that lists properties
specific to that provider. The name of this resource is:
> [*prefix*/]`jndiprovider.properties`

where *prefix* is
the package name of the provider's context implementation(s),
with each period (".") converted to a slash ("/").
For example, suppose a service provider defines a context
implementation with class name `com.sun.jndi.ldap.LdapCtx`.
The provider resource for this provider is named
`com/sun/jndi/ldap/jndiprovider.properties`. If the class is
not in a package, the resource's name is simply
`jndiprovider.properties`.

Certain methods in the JNDI class library make use of the standard
JNDI properties that specify lists of JNDI factories:

* java.naming.factory.object* java.naming.factory.state* java.naming.factory.control* java.naming.factory.url.pkgs

The JNDI library will consult the provider resource file
when determining the values of these properties.
Properties other than these may be set in the provider
resource file at the discretion of the service provider.
The service provider's documentation should clearly state which
properties are allowed; other properties in the file will be ignored.

### Application Resource Files

When an application is deployed, it will generally have several
codebase directories and JARs in its classpath. JNDI locates (using
[`ClassLoader.getResources()`](../../../java.base/java/lang/ClassLoader.md#getResources(java.lang.String)))
all *application resource files* named `jndi.properties`
in the classpath.
In addition, if the Java installation directory contains a built-in
properties file, typically `conf/jndi.properties`,
JNDI treats it as an additional application resource file.
All of the properties contained in these files are placed
into the environment of the initial context. This environment
is then inherited by other contexts.

For each property found in more than one application resource file,
JNDI uses the first value found or, in a few cases where it makes
sense to do so, it concatenates all of the values (details are given
below).
For example, if the "java.naming.factory.object" property is found in
three `jndi.properties` resource files, the
list of object factories is a concatenation of the property
values from all three files.
Using this scheme, each deployable component is responsible for
listing the factories that it exports. JNDI automatically
collects and uses all of these export lists when searching for factory
classes.

### Search Algorithm for Properties

When JNDI constructs an initial context, the context's environment
is initialized with properties defined in the environment parameter
passed to the constructor, the system properties,
and the application resource files. See
[`InitialContext`](InitialContext.md#ENVIRONMENT)
for details.
This initial environment is then inherited by other context instances.

When the JNDI class library needs to determine
the value of a property, it does so by merging
the values from the following two sources, in order:

1. The environment of the context being operated on.- The provider resource file (`jndiprovider.properties`)
     for the context being operated on.

For each property found in both of these two sources,
JNDI determines the property's value as follows. If the property is
one of the standard JNDI properties that specify a list of JNDI
factories (listed [above](#LISTPROPS)), the values are
concatenated into a single colon-separated list. For other
properties, only the first value found is used.

When a service provider needs to determine the value of a property,
it will generally take that value directly from the environment.
A service provider may define provider-specific properties
to be placed in its own provider resource file. In that
case it should merge values as described in the previous paragraph.

In this way, each service provider developer can specify a list of
factories to use with that service provider. These can be modified by
the application resources specified by the deployer of the application,
which in turn can be modified by the user.

Since:
:   1.3

* ## Field Summary

  Fields

  Modifier and Type

  Field

  Description

  `static final String`

  `APPLET`

  Deprecated, for removal: This API element is subject to removal in a future version.

  An environment property with this name is ignored
  while constructing an initial context.

  `static final String`

  `AUTHORITATIVE`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
  specifying the authoritativeness of the service requested.

  `static final String`

  `BATCHSIZE`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
  specifying the batch size to use when returning data via the
  service's protocol.

  `static final String`

  `DNS_URL`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property
  for specifying the DNS host and domain names to use for the
  JNDI URL context (for example, "dns://somehost/wiz.com").

  `static final String`

  `INITIAL_CONTEXT_FACTORY`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property
  for specifying the initial context factory to use.

  `static final String`

  `LANGUAGE`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
  specifying the preferred language to use with the service.

  `static final String`

  `OBJECT_FACTORIES`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property
  for specifying the list of object factories to use.

  `static final String`

  `PROVIDER_URL`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property
  for specifying configuration information for the service provider
  to use.

  `static final String`

  `REFERRAL`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
  specifying how referrals encountered by the service provider
  are to be processed.

  `static final String`

  `SECURITY_AUTHENTICATION`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
  specifying the security level to use.

  `static final String`

  `SECURITY_CREDENTIALS`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
  specifying the credentials of the principal for authenticating
  the caller to the service.

  `static final String`

  `SECURITY_PRINCIPAL`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
  specifying the identity of the principal for authenticating
  the caller to the service.

  `static final String`

  `SECURITY_PROTOCOL`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
  specifying the security protocol to use.

  `static final String`

  `STATE_FACTORIES`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property
  for specifying the list of state factories to use.

  `static final String`

  `URL_PKG_PREFIXES`

  Constant that holds the name of the environment property
  for specifying the list of package prefixes to use when
  loading in URL context factories.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsAbstract Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `Object`

  `addToEnvironment(String propName,
  Object propVal)`

  Adds a new environment property to the environment of this
  context.

  `void`

  `bind(String name,
  Object obj)`

  Binds a name to an object.

  `void`

  `bind(Name name,
  Object obj)`

  Binds a name to an object.

  `void`

  `close()`

  Closes this context.

  `String`

  `composeName(String name,
  String prefix)`

  Composes the name of this context with a name relative to
  this context.

  `Name`

  `composeName(Name name,
  Name prefix)`

  Composes the name of this context with a name relative to
  this context.

  `Context`

  `createSubcontext(String name)`

  Creates and binds a new context.

  `Context`

  `createSubcontext(Name name)`

  Creates and binds a new context.

  `void`

  `destroySubcontext(String name)`

  Destroys the named context and removes it from the namespace.

  `void`

  `destroySubcontext(Name name)`

  Destroys the named context and removes it from the namespace.

  `Hashtable<?,?>`

  `getEnvironment()`

  Retrieves the environment in effect for this context.

  `String`

  `getNameInNamespace()`

  Retrieves the full name of this context within its own namespace.

  `NameParser`

  `getNameParser(String name)`

  Retrieves the parser associated with the named context.

  `NameParser`

  `getNameParser(Name name)`

  Retrieves the parser associated with the named context.

  `NamingEnumeration<NameClassPair>`

  `list(String name)`

  Enumerates the names bound in the named context, along with the
  class names of objects bound to them.

  `NamingEnumeration<NameClassPair>`

  `list(Name name)`

  Enumerates the names bound in the named context, along with the
  class names of objects bound to them.

  `NamingEnumeration<Binding>`

  `listBindings(String name)`

  Enumerates the names bound in the named context, along with the
  objects bound to them.

  `NamingEnumeration<Binding>`

  `listBindings(Name name)`

  Enumerates the names bound in the named context, along with the
  objects bound to them.

  `Object`

  `lookup(String name)`

  Retrieves the named object.

  `Object`

  `lookup(Name name)`

  Retrieves the named object.

  `Object`

  `lookupLink(String name)`

  Retrieves the named object, following links except
  for the terminal atomic component of the name.

  `Object`

  `lookupLink(Name name)`

  Retrieves the named object, following links except
  for the terminal atomic component of the name.

  `void`

  `rebind(String name,
  Object obj)`

  Binds a name to an object, overwriting any existing binding.

  `void`

  `rebind(Name name,
  Object obj)`

  Binds a name to an object, overwriting any existing binding.

  `Object`

  `removeFromEnvironment(String propName)`

  Removes an environment property from the environment of this
  context.

  `void`

  `rename(String oldName,
  String newName)`

  Binds a new name to the object bound to an old name, and unbinds
  the old name.

  `void`

  `rename(Name oldName,
  Name newName)`

  Binds a new name to the object bound to an old name, and unbinds
  the old name.

  `void`

  `unbind(String name)`

  Unbinds the named object.

  `void`

  `unbind(Name name)`

  Unbinds the named object.

* ## Field Details

  + ### INITIAL\_CONTEXT\_FACTORY

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") INITIAL\_CONTEXT\_FACTORY

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property
    for specifying the initial context factory to use. The value
    of the property should be the fully qualified class name
    of the factory class that will create an initial context.
    This property may be specified in the environment parameter
    passed to the initial context constructor,
    a system property, or an application resource file.
    If it is not specified in any of these sources,
    `NoInitialContextException` is thrown when an initial
    context is required to complete an operation.

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.factory.initial".

    See Also:
    :   - [`InitialContext`](InitialContext.md "class in javax.naming")
        - [`InitialDirContext`](directory/InitialDirContext.md "class in javax.naming.directory")
        - [`NamingManager.getInitialContext(java.util.Hashtable<?, ?>)`](spi/NamingManager.md#getInitialContext(java.util.Hashtable))
        - [`InitialContextFactory`](spi/InitialContextFactory.md "interface in javax.naming.spi")
        - [`NoInitialContextException`](NoInitialContextException.md "class in javax.naming")
        - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.INITIAL_CONTEXT_FACTORY)
  + ### OBJECT\_FACTORIES

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") OBJECT\_FACTORIES

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property
    for specifying the list of object factories to use. The value
    of the property should be a colon-separated list of the fully
    qualified class names of factory classes that will create an object
    given information about the object.
    This property may be specified in the environment, a system property,
    or one or more resource files.

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.factory.object".

    See Also:
    :   - [`NamingManager.getObjectInstance(java.lang.Object, javax.naming.Name, javax.naming.Context, java.util.Hashtable<?, ?>)`](spi/NamingManager.md#getObjectInstance(java.lang.Object,javax.naming.Name,javax.naming.Context,java.util.Hashtable))
        - [`ObjectFactory`](spi/ObjectFactory.md "interface in javax.naming.spi")
        - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.OBJECT_FACTORIES)
  + ### STATE\_FACTORIES

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") STATE\_FACTORIES

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property
    for specifying the list of state factories to use. The value
    of the property should be a colon-separated list of the fully
    qualified class names of state factory classes that will be used
    to get an object's state given the object itself.
    This property may be specified in the environment, a system property,
    or one or more resource files.

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.factory.state".

    Since:
    :   1.3

    See Also:
    :   - [`NamingManager.getStateToBind(java.lang.Object, javax.naming.Name, javax.naming.Context, java.util.Hashtable<?, ?>)`](spi/NamingManager.md#getStateToBind(java.lang.Object,javax.naming.Name,javax.naming.Context,java.util.Hashtable))
        - [`StateFactory`](spi/StateFactory.md "interface in javax.naming.spi")
        - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.STATE_FACTORIES)
  + ### URL\_PKG\_PREFIXES

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") URL\_PKG\_PREFIXES

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property
    for specifying the list of package prefixes to use when
    loading in URL context factories. The value
    of the property should be a colon-separated list of package
    prefixes for the class name of the factory class that will create
    a URL context factory.
    This property may be specified in the environment, a system property,
    or one or more resource files.
    The prefix `com.sun.jndi.url` is always appended to
    the possibly empty list of package prefixes.

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.factory.url.pkgs".

    See Also:
    :   - [`NamingManager.getObjectInstance(java.lang.Object, javax.naming.Name, javax.naming.Context, java.util.Hashtable<?, ?>)`](spi/NamingManager.md#getObjectInstance(java.lang.Object,javax.naming.Name,javax.naming.Context,java.util.Hashtable))
        - [`NamingManager.getURLContext(java.lang.String, java.util.Hashtable<?, ?>)`](spi/NamingManager.md#getURLContext(java.lang.String,java.util.Hashtable))
        - [`ObjectFactory`](spi/ObjectFactory.md "interface in javax.naming.spi")
        - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.URL_PKG_PREFIXES)
  + ### PROVIDER\_URL

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") PROVIDER\_URL

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property
    for specifying configuration information for the service provider
    to use. The value of the property should contain a URL string
    (e.g. "ldap://somehost:389").
    This property may be specified in the environment, a system property,
    or a resource file.
    If it is not specified in any of these sources,
    the default configuration is determined by the service provider.

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.provider.url".

    See Also:
    :   - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.PROVIDER_URL)
  + ### DNS\_URL

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") DNS\_URL

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property
    for specifying the DNS host and domain names to use for the
    JNDI URL context (for example, "dns://somehost/wiz.com").
    This property may be specified in the environment, a system property,
    or a resource file.
    If it is not specified in any of these sources
    and the program attempts to use a JNDI URL containing a DNS name,
    a `ConfigurationException` will be thrown.

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.dns.url".

    See Also:
    :   - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.DNS_URL)
  + ### AUTHORITATIVE

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") AUTHORITATIVE

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
    specifying the authoritativeness of the service requested.
    If the value of the property is the string "true", it means
    that the access is to the most authoritative source (i.e. bypass
    any cache or replicas). If the value is anything else,
    the source need not be (but may be) authoritative.
    If unspecified, the value defaults to "false".

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.authoritative".

    See Also:
    :   - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.AUTHORITATIVE)
  + ### BATCHSIZE

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") BATCHSIZE

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
    specifying the batch size to use when returning data via the
    service's protocol. This is a hint to the provider to return
    the results of operations in batches of the specified size, so
    the provider can optimize its performance and usage of resources.
    The value of the property is the string representation of an
    integer.
    If unspecified, the batch size is determined by the service
    provider.

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.batchsize".

    See Also:
    :   - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.BATCHSIZE)
  + ### REFERRAL

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") REFERRAL

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
    specifying how referrals encountered by the service provider
    are to be processed. The value of the property is one of the
    following strings:

    "follow": follow referrals automatically "ignore": ignore referrals "throw": throw `ReferralException` when a referral is encountered.

    If this property is not specified, the default is
    determined by the provider.

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.referral".

    See Also:
    :   - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.REFERRAL)
  + ### SECURITY\_PROTOCOL

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") SECURITY\_PROTOCOL

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
    specifying the security protocol to use.
    Its value is a string determined by the service provider
    (e.g. "ssl").
    If this property is unspecified,
    the behaviour is determined by the service provider.

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.security.protocol".

    See Also:
    :   - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.SECURITY_PROTOCOL)
  + ### SECURITY\_AUTHENTICATION

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") SECURITY\_AUTHENTICATION

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
    specifying the security level to use.
    Its value is one of the following strings:
    "none", "simple", "strong".
    If this property is unspecified,
    the behaviour is determined by the service provider.

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.security.authentication".

    See Also:
    :   - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.SECURITY_AUTHENTICATION)
  + ### SECURITY\_PRINCIPAL

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") SECURITY\_PRINCIPAL

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
    specifying the identity of the principal for authenticating
    the caller to the service. The format of the principal
    depends on the authentication scheme.
    If this property is unspecified,
    the behaviour is determined by the service provider.

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.security.principal".

    See Also:
    :   - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.SECURITY_PRINCIPAL)
  + ### SECURITY\_CREDENTIALS

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") SECURITY\_CREDENTIALS

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
    specifying the credentials of the principal for authenticating
    the caller to the service. The value of the property depends
    on the authentication scheme. For example, it could be a hashed
    password, clear-text password, key, certificate, and so on.
    If this property is unspecified,
    the behaviour is determined by the service provider.

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.security.credentials".

    See Also:
    :   - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.SECURITY_CREDENTIALS)
  + ### LANGUAGE

    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") LANGUAGE

    Constant that holds the name of the environment property for
    specifying the preferred language to use with the service.
    The value of the property is a colon-separated list of language
    tags as defined in RFC 1766.
    If this property is unspecified,
    the language preference is determined by the service provider.

    The value of this constant is "java.naming.language".

    See Also:
    :   - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.LANGUAGE)
  + ### APPLET

    [@Deprecated](../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md "annotation interface in java.lang")([since](../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md#since())="9",
    [forRemoval](../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md#forRemoval())=true)
    static final [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") APPLET

    Deprecated, for removal: This API element is subject to removal in a future version.

    An environment property with this name is ignored
    while constructing an initial context.
    This constant was originally used as a property name to specify an
    `Applet` to retrieve parameters from, when creating an initial
    context. Currently any applet properties that need to be passed to an
    initial context should be copied into the environment hashtable:

    ```
         Hashtable env = new Hashtable();
         env.put(Context.INITIAL_CONTEXT_FACTORY,
           ((Applet) this).getParameter(Context.INITIAL_CONTEXT_FACTORY));
         env.put(Context.PROVIDER_URL,
           ((Applet) this).getParameter(Context.PROVIDER_URL));
         // ... other properties ...

         Context ctx = new InitialContext(env);
    ```

    Since:
    :   1.3

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.naming.Context.APPLET)
* ## Method Details

  + ### lookup

    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") lookup([Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Retrieves the named object.
    If `name` is empty, returns a new instance of this context
    (which represents the same naming context as this context, but its
    environment may be modified independently and it may be accessed
    concurrently).

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the object to look up

    Returns:
    :   the object bound to `name`

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`lookup(String)`](#lookup(java.lang.String))
        - [`lookupLink(Name)`](#lookupLink(javax.naming.Name))
  + ### lookup

    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") lookup([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Retrieves the named object.
    See [`lookup(Name)`](#lookup(javax.naming.Name)) for details.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the object to look up

    Returns:
    :   the object bound to `name`

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered
  + ### bind

    void bind([Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") name,
    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") obj)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Binds a name to an object.
    All intermediate contexts and the target context (that named by all
    but terminal atomic component of the name) must already exist.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name to bind; may not be empty
    :   `obj` - the object to bind; possibly null

    Throws:
    :   `NameAlreadyBoundException` - if name is already bound
    :   `InvalidAttributesException` - if object did not supply all mandatory attributes
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`bind(String, Object)`](#bind(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`rebind(Name, Object)`](#rebind(javax.naming.Name,java.lang.Object))
        - [`DirContext.bind(Name, Object, javax.naming.directory.Attributes)`](directory/DirContext.md#bind(javax.naming.Name,java.lang.Object,javax.naming.directory.Attributes))
  + ### bind

    void bind([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") name,
    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") obj)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Binds a name to an object.
    See [`bind(Name, Object)`](#bind(javax.naming.Name,java.lang.Object)) for details.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name to bind; may not be empty
    :   `obj` - the object to bind; possibly null

    Throws:
    :   `NameAlreadyBoundException` - if name is already bound
    :   `InvalidAttributesException` - if object did not supply all mandatory attributes
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered
  + ### rebind

    void rebind([Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") name,
    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") obj)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Binds a name to an object, overwriting any existing binding.
    All intermediate contexts and the target context (that named by all
    but terminal atomic component of the name) must already exist.

    If the object is a `DirContext`, any existing attributes
    associated with the name are replaced with those of the object.
    Otherwise, any existing attributes associated with the name remain
    unchanged.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name to bind; may not be empty
    :   `obj` - the object to bind; possibly null

    Throws:
    :   `InvalidAttributesException` - if object did not supply all mandatory attributes
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`rebind(String, Object)`](#rebind(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`bind(Name, Object)`](#bind(javax.naming.Name,java.lang.Object))
        - [`DirContext.rebind(Name, Object, javax.naming.directory.Attributes)`](directory/DirContext.md#rebind(javax.naming.Name,java.lang.Object,javax.naming.directory.Attributes))
        - [`DirContext`](directory/DirContext.md "interface in javax.naming.directory")
  + ### rebind

    void rebind([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") name,
    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") obj)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Binds a name to an object, overwriting any existing binding.
    See [`rebind(Name, Object)`](#rebind(javax.naming.Name,java.lang.Object)) for details.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name to bind; may not be empty
    :   `obj` - the object to bind; possibly null

    Throws:
    :   `InvalidAttributesException` - if object did not supply all mandatory attributes
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered
  + ### unbind

    void unbind([Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Unbinds the named object.
    Removes the terminal atomic name in `name`
    from the target context--that named by all but the terminal
    atomic part of `name`.

    This method is idempotent.
    It succeeds even if the terminal atomic name
    is not bound in the target context, but throws
    `NameNotFoundException`
    if any of the intermediate contexts do not exist.

    Any attributes associated with the name are removed.
    Intermediate contexts are not changed.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name to unbind; may not be empty

    Throws:
    :   `NameNotFoundException` - if an intermediate context does not exist
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`unbind(String)`](#unbind(java.lang.String))
  + ### unbind

    void unbind([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Unbinds the named object.
    See [`unbind(Name)`](#unbind(javax.naming.Name)) for details.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name to unbind; may not be empty

    Throws:
    :   `NameNotFoundException` - if an intermediate context does not exist
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered
  + ### rename

    void rename([Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") oldName,
    [Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") newName)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Binds a new name to the object bound to an old name, and unbinds
    the old name. Both names are relative to this context.
    Any attributes associated with the old name become associated
    with the new name.
    Intermediate contexts of the old name are not changed.

    Parameters:
    :   `oldName` - the name of the existing binding; may not be empty
    :   `newName` - the name of the new binding; may not be empty

    Throws:
    :   `NameAlreadyBoundException` - if `newName` is already bound
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`rename(String, String)`](#rename(java.lang.String,java.lang.String))
        - [`bind(Name, Object)`](#bind(javax.naming.Name,java.lang.Object))
        - [`rebind(Name, Object)`](#rebind(javax.naming.Name,java.lang.Object))
  + ### rename

    void rename([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") oldName,
    [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") newName)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Binds a new name to the object bound to an old name, and unbinds
    the old name.
    See [`rename(Name, Name)`](#rename(javax.naming.Name,javax.naming.Name)) for details.

    Parameters:
    :   `oldName` - the name of the existing binding; may not be empty
    :   `newName` - the name of the new binding; may not be empty

    Throws:
    :   `NameAlreadyBoundException` - if `newName` is already bound
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered
  + ### list

    [NamingEnumeration](NamingEnumeration.md "interface in javax.naming")<[NameClassPair](NameClassPair.md "class in javax.naming")> list([Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Enumerates the names bound in the named context, along with the
    class names of objects bound to them.
    The contents of any subcontexts are not included.

    If a binding is added to or removed from this context,
    its effect on an enumeration previously returned is undefined.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the context to list

    Returns:
    :   an enumeration of the names and class names of the
        bindings in this context. Each element of the
        enumeration is of type `NameClassPair`.

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`list(String)`](#list(java.lang.String))
        - [`listBindings(Name)`](#listBindings(javax.naming.Name))
        - [`NameClassPair`](NameClassPair.md "class in javax.naming")
  + ### list

    [NamingEnumeration](NamingEnumeration.md "interface in javax.naming")<[NameClassPair](NameClassPair.md "class in javax.naming")> list([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Enumerates the names bound in the named context, along with the
    class names of objects bound to them.
    See [`list(Name)`](#list(javax.naming.Name)) for details.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the context to list

    Returns:
    :   an enumeration of the names and class names of the
        bindings in this context. Each element of the
        enumeration is of type `NameClassPair`.

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered
  + ### listBindings

    [NamingEnumeration](NamingEnumeration.md "interface in javax.naming")<[Binding](Binding.md "class in javax.naming")> listBindings([Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Enumerates the names bound in the named context, along with the
    objects bound to them.
    The contents of any subcontexts are not included.

    If a binding is added to or removed from this context,
    its effect on an enumeration previously returned is undefined.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the context to list

    Returns:
    :   an enumeration of the bindings in this context.
        Each element of the enumeration is of type
        `Binding`.

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`listBindings(String)`](#listBindings(java.lang.String))
        - [`list(Name)`](#list(javax.naming.Name))
        - [`Binding`](Binding.md "class in javax.naming")
  + ### listBindings

    [NamingEnumeration](NamingEnumeration.md "interface in javax.naming")<[Binding](Binding.md "class in javax.naming")> listBindings([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Enumerates the names bound in the named context, along with the
    objects bound to them.
    See [`listBindings(Name)`](#listBindings(javax.naming.Name)) for details.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the context to list

    Returns:
    :   an enumeration of the bindings in this context.
        Each element of the enumeration is of type
        `Binding`.

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered
  + ### destroySubcontext

    void destroySubcontext([Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Destroys the named context and removes it from the namespace.
    Any attributes associated with the name are also removed.
    Intermediate contexts are not destroyed.

    This method is idempotent.
    It succeeds even if the terminal atomic name
    is not bound in the target context, but throws
    `NameNotFoundException`
    if any of the intermediate contexts do not exist.

    In a federated naming system, a context from one naming system
    may be bound to a name in another. One can subsequently
    look up and perform operations on the foreign context using a
    composite name. However, an attempt destroy the context using
    this composite name will fail with
    `NotContextException`, because the foreign context is not
    a "subcontext" of the context in which it is bound.
    Instead, use `unbind()` to remove the
    binding of the foreign context. Destroying the foreign context
    requires that the `destroySubcontext()` be performed
    on a context from the foreign context's "native" naming system.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the context to be destroyed; may not be empty

    Throws:
    :   `NameNotFoundException` - if an intermediate context does not exist
    :   `NotContextException` - if the name is bound but does not name a
        context, or does not name a context of the appropriate type
    :   `ContextNotEmptyException` - if the named context is not empty
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`destroySubcontext(String)`](#destroySubcontext(java.lang.String))
  + ### destroySubcontext

    void destroySubcontext([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Destroys the named context and removes it from the namespace.
    See [`destroySubcontext(Name)`](#destroySubcontext(javax.naming.Name)) for details.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the context to be destroyed; may not be empty

    Throws:
    :   `NameNotFoundException` - if an intermediate context does not exist
    :   `NotContextException` - if the name is bound but does not name a
        context, or does not name a context of the appropriate type
    :   `ContextNotEmptyException` - if the named context is not empty
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered
  + ### createSubcontext

    [Context](Context.md "interface in javax.naming") createSubcontext([Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Creates and binds a new context.
    Creates a new context with the given name and binds it in
    the target context (that named by all but terminal atomic
    component of the name). All intermediate contexts and the
    target context must already exist.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the context to create; may not be empty

    Returns:
    :   the newly created context

    Throws:
    :   `NameAlreadyBoundException` - if name is already bound
    :   `InvalidAttributesException` - if creation of the subcontext requires specification of
        mandatory attributes
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`createSubcontext(String)`](#createSubcontext(java.lang.String))
        - [`DirContext.createSubcontext(javax.naming.Name, javax.naming.directory.Attributes)`](directory/DirContext.md#createSubcontext(javax.naming.Name,javax.naming.directory.Attributes))
  + ### createSubcontext

    [Context](Context.md "interface in javax.naming") createSubcontext([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Creates and binds a new context.
    See [`createSubcontext(Name)`](#createSubcontext(javax.naming.Name)) for details.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the context to create; may not be empty

    Returns:
    :   the newly created context

    Throws:
    :   `NameAlreadyBoundException` - if name is already bound
    :   `InvalidAttributesException` - if creation of the subcontext requires specification of
        mandatory attributes
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered
  + ### lookupLink

    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") lookupLink([Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Retrieves the named object, following links except
    for the terminal atomic component of the name.
    If the object bound to `name` is not a link,
    returns the object itself.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the object to look up

    Returns:
    :   the object bound to `name`, not following the
        terminal link (if any).

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`lookupLink(String)`](#lookupLink(java.lang.String))
  + ### lookupLink

    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") lookupLink([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Retrieves the named object, following links except
    for the terminal atomic component of the name.
    See [`lookupLink(Name)`](#lookupLink(javax.naming.Name)) for details.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the object to look up

    Returns:
    :   the object bound to `name`, not following the
        terminal link (if any)

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered
  + ### getNameParser

    [NameParser](NameParser.md "interface in javax.naming") getNameParser([Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Retrieves the parser associated with the named context.
    In a federation of namespaces, different naming systems will
    parse names differently. This method allows an application
    to get a parser for parsing names into their atomic components
    using the naming convention of a particular naming system.
    Within any single naming system, `NameParser` objects
    returned by this method must be equal (using the `equals()`
    test).

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the context from which to get the parser

    Returns:
    :   a name parser that can parse compound names into their atomic
        components

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`getNameParser(String)`](#getNameParser(java.lang.String))
        - [`CompoundName`](CompoundName.md "class in javax.naming")
  + ### getNameParser

    [NameParser](NameParser.md "interface in javax.naming") getNameParser([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") name)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Retrieves the parser associated with the named context.
    See [`getNameParser(Name)`](#getNameParser(javax.naming.Name)) for details.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - the name of the context from which to get the parser

    Returns:
    :   a name parser that can parse compound names into their atomic
        components

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered
  + ### composeName

    [Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") composeName([Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") name,
    [Name](Name.md "interface in javax.naming") prefix)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Composes the name of this context with a name relative to
    this context.
    Given a name (`name`) relative to this context, and
    the name (`prefix`) of this context relative to one
    of its ancestors, this method returns the composition of the
    two names using the syntax appropriate for the naming
    system(s) involved. That is, if `name` names an
    object relative to this context, the result is the name of the
    same object, but relative to the ancestor context. None of the
    names may be null.

    For example, if this context is named "wiz.com" relative
    to the initial context, then

    ```
      composeName("east", "wiz.com")
    ```

    might return `"east.wiz.com"`.
    If instead this context is named "org/research", then

    ```
      composeName("user/jane", "org/research")
    ```

    might return `"org/research/user/jane"` while

    ```
      composeName("user/jane", "research")
    ```

    returns `"research/user/jane"`.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - a name relative to this context
    :   `prefix` - the name of this context relative to one of its ancestors

    Returns:
    :   the composition of `prefix` and `name`

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`composeName(String, String)`](#composeName(java.lang.String,java.lang.String))
  + ### composeName

    [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") composeName([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") name,
    [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") prefix)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Composes the name of this context with a name relative to
    this context.
    See [`composeName(Name, Name)`](#composeName(javax.naming.Name,javax.naming.Name)) for details.

    Parameters:
    :   `name` - a name relative to this context
    :   `prefix` - the name of this context relative to one of its ancestors

    Returns:
    :   the composition of `prefix` and `name`

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered
  + ### addToEnvironment

    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") addToEnvironment([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") propName,
    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") propVal)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Adds a new environment property to the environment of this
    context. If the property already exists, its value is overwritten.
    See class description for more details on environment properties.

    Parameters:
    :   `propName` - the name of the environment property to add; may not be null
    :   `propVal` - the value of the property to add; may not be null

    Returns:
    :   the previous value of the property, or null if the property was
        not in the environment before

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`getEnvironment()`](#getEnvironment())
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
  + ### removeFromEnvironment

    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") removeFromEnvironment([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") propName)
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Removes an environment property from the environment of this
    context. See class description for more details on environment
    properties.

    Parameters:
    :   `propName` - the name of the environment property to remove; may not be null

    Returns:
    :   the previous value of the property, or null if the property was
        not in the environment

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`getEnvironment()`](#getEnvironment())
        - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
  + ### getEnvironment

    [Hashtable](../../../java.base/java/util/Hashtable.md "class in java.util")<?,?> getEnvironment()
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Retrieves the environment in effect for this context.
    See class description for more details on environment properties.

    The caller should not make any changes to the object returned:
    their effect on the context is undefined.
    The environment of this context may be changed using
    `addToEnvironment()` and `removeFromEnvironment()`.

    Returns:
    :   the environment of this context; never null

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    See Also:
    :   - [`addToEnvironment(String, Object)`](#addToEnvironment(java.lang.String,java.lang.Object))
        - [`removeFromEnvironment(String)`](#removeFromEnvironment(java.lang.String))
  + ### close

    void close()
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Closes this context.
    This method releases this context's resources immediately, instead of
    waiting for them to be released automatically by the garbage collector.

    This method is idempotent: invoking it on a context that has
    already been closed has no effect. Invoking any other method
    on a closed context is not allowed, and results in undefined behaviour.

    Throws:
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered
  + ### getNameInNamespace

    [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") getNameInNamespace()
    throws [NamingException](NamingException.md "class in javax.naming")

    Retrieves the full name of this context within its own namespace.

    Many naming services have a notion of a "full name" for objects
    in their respective namespaces. For example, an LDAP entry has
    a distinguished name, and a DNS record has a fully qualified name.
    This method allows the client application to retrieve this name.
    The string returned by this method is not a JNDI composite name
    and should not be passed directly to context methods.
    In naming systems for which the notion of full name does not
    make sense, `OperationNotSupportedException` is thrown.

    Returns:
    :   this context's name in its own namespace; never null

    Throws:
    :   `OperationNotSupportedException` - if the naming system does
        not have the notion of a full name
    :   `NamingException` - if a naming exception is encountered

    Since:
    :   1.3