Module [java.desktop](../../../../module-summary.md)

Package [javax.print.attribute.standard](package-summary.md)

# Class OrientationRequested

[java.lang.Object](../../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

[javax.print.attribute.EnumSyntax](../EnumSyntax.md "class in javax.print.attribute")

javax.print.attribute.standard.OrientationRequested

All Implemented Interfaces:
:   `Serializable`, `Cloneable`, `Attribute`, `DocAttribute`, `PrintJobAttribute`, `PrintRequestAttribute`

---

public final class OrientationRequested
extends [EnumSyntax](../EnumSyntax.md "class in javax.print.attribute")
implements [DocAttribute](../DocAttribute.md "interface in javax.print.attribute"), [PrintRequestAttribute](../PrintRequestAttribute.md "interface in javax.print.attribute"), [PrintJobAttribute](../PrintJobAttribute.md "interface in javax.print.attribute")

Class `OrientationRequested` is a printing attribute class, an
enumeration, that indicates the desired orientation for printed print-stream
pages; it does not describe the orientation of the client-supplied
print-stream pages.

For some document formats (such as `"application/postscript"`), the
desired orientation of the print-stream pages is specified within the
document data. This information is generated by a device driver prior to the
submission of the print job. Other document formats (such as
`"text/plain"`) do not include the notion of desired orientation within
the document data. In the latter case it is possible for the printer to bind
the desired orientation to the document data after it has been submitted. It
is expected that a printer would only support the
`OrientationRequested` attribute for some document formats (e.g.,
`"text/plain"` or `"text/html"`) but not others (e.g.
`"application/postscript"`). This is no different from any other job
template attribute, since a print job can always impose constraints among the
values of different job template attributes. However, a special mention is
made here since it is very likely that a printer will support the
`OrientationRequested` attribute for only a subset of the supported
document formats.

**IPP Compatibility:** The category name returned by `getName()` is
the IPP attribute name. The enumeration's integer value is the IPP enum
value. The `toString()` method returns the IPP string representation of
the attribute value.

See Also:
:   * [Serialized Form](../../../../../serialized-form.md#javax.print.attribute.standard.OrientationRequested)

* ## Field Summary

  Fields

  Modifier and Type

  Field

  Description

  `static final OrientationRequested`

  `LANDSCAPE`

  The content will be imaged across the long edge of the medium.

  `static final OrientationRequested`

  `PORTRAIT`

  The content will be imaged across the short edge of the medium.

  `static final OrientationRequested`

  `REVERSE_LANDSCAPE`

  The content will be imaged across the long edge of the medium, but in the
  opposite manner from landscape.

  `static final OrientationRequested`

  `REVERSE_PORTRAIT`

  The content will be imaged across the short edge of the medium, but in
  the opposite manner from portrait.
* ## Constructor Summary

  Constructors

  Modifier

  Constructor

  Description

  `protected`

  `OrientationRequested(int value)`

  Construct a new orientation requested enumeration value with the given
  integer value.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsConcrete Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `final Class<? extends Attribute>`

  `getCategory()`

  Get the printing attribute class which is to be used as the "category"
  for this printing attribute value.

  `protected EnumSyntax[]`

  `getEnumValueTable()`

  Returns the enumeration value table for class
  `OrientationRequested`.

  `final String`

  `getName()`

  Get the name of the category of which this attribute value is an
  instance.

  `protected int`

  `getOffset()`

  Returns the lowest integer value used by class
  `OrientationRequested`.

  `protected String[]`

  `getStringTable()`

  Returns the string table for class `OrientationRequested`.

  ### Methods inherited from class javax.print.attribute.[EnumSyntax](../EnumSyntax.md "class in javax.print.attribute")

  `clone, getValue, hashCode, readResolve, toString`

  ### Methods inherited from class java.lang.[Object](../../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `equals, finalize, getClass, notify, notifyAll, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Field Details

  + ### PORTRAIT

    public static final [OrientationRequested](OrientationRequested.md "class in javax.print.attribute.standard") PORTRAIT

    The content will be imaged across the short edge of the medium.
  + ### LANDSCAPE

    public static final [OrientationRequested](OrientationRequested.md "class in javax.print.attribute.standard") LANDSCAPE

    The content will be imaged across the long edge of the medium. Landscape
    is defined to be a rotation of the print-stream page to be imaged by +90
    degrees with respect to the medium (i.e. anti-clockwise) from the
    portrait orientation. *Note:* The +90 direction was chosen because
    simple finishing on the long edge is the same edge whether portrait or
    landscape.
  + ### REVERSE\_LANDSCAPE

    public static final [OrientationRequested](OrientationRequested.md "class in javax.print.attribute.standard") REVERSE\_LANDSCAPE

    The content will be imaged across the long edge of the medium, but in the
    opposite manner from landscape. Reverse-landscape is defined to be a
    rotation of the print-stream page to be imaged by -90 degrees with
    respect to the medium (i.e. clockwise) from the portrait orientation.
    *Note:* The REVERSE\_LANDSCAPE value was added because some
    applications rotate landscape -90 degrees from portrait, rather than +90
    degrees.
  + ### REVERSE\_PORTRAIT

    public static final [OrientationRequested](OrientationRequested.md "class in javax.print.attribute.standard") REVERSE\_PORTRAIT

    The content will be imaged across the short edge of the medium, but in
    the opposite manner from portrait. Reverse-portrait is defined to be a
    rotation of the print-stream page to be imaged by 180 degrees with
    respect to the medium from the portrait orientation. *Note:* The
    REVERSE\_PORTRAIT value was added for use with the
    [`Finishings`](Finishings.md "class in javax.print.attribute.standard") attribute in cases where the opposite edge
    is desired for finishing a portrait document on simple finishing devices
    that have only one finishing position. Thus a `"text/plain"`
    portrait document can be stapled "on the right" by a simple finishing
    device as is common use with some Middle Eastern languages such as
    Hebrew.
* ## Constructor Details

  + ### OrientationRequested

    protected OrientationRequested(int value)

    Construct a new orientation requested enumeration value with the given
    integer value.

    Parameters:
    :   `value` - Integer value
* ## Method Details

  + ### getStringTable

    protected [String](../../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang")[] getStringTable()

    Returns the string table for class `OrientationRequested`.

    Overrides:
    :   `getStringTable` in class `EnumSyntax`

    Returns:
    :   the string table
  + ### getEnumValueTable

    protected [EnumSyntax](../EnumSyntax.md "class in javax.print.attribute")[] getEnumValueTable()

    Returns the enumeration value table for class
    `OrientationRequested`.

    Overrides:
    :   `getEnumValueTable` in class `EnumSyntax`

    Returns:
    :   the value table
  + ### getOffset

    protected int getOffset()

    Returns the lowest integer value used by class
    `OrientationRequested`.

    Overrides:
    :   `getOffset` in class `EnumSyntax`

    Returns:
    :   the offset of the lowest enumeration value
  + ### getCategory

    public final [Class](../../../../../java.base/java/lang/Class.md "class in java.lang")<? extends [Attribute](../Attribute.md "interface in javax.print.attribute")> getCategory()

    Get the printing attribute class which is to be used as the "category"
    for this printing attribute value.

    For class `OrientationRequested`, the category is class
    `OrientationRequested` itself.

    Specified by:
    :   `getCategory` in interface `Attribute`

    Returns:
    :   printing attribute class (category), an instance of class
        [`java.lang.Class`](../../../../../java.base/java/lang/Class.md "class in java.lang")
  + ### getName

    public final [String](../../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") getName()

    Get the name of the category of which this attribute value is an
    instance.

    For class `OrientationRequested`, the category name is
    `"orientation-requested"`.

    Specified by:
    :   `getName` in interface `Attribute`

    Returns:
    :   attribute category name