Module [java.desktop](../../../../module-summary.md)

Package [javax.print.attribute.standard](package-summary.md)

# Class PagesPerMinuteColor

[java.lang.Object](../../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

[javax.print.attribute.IntegerSyntax](../IntegerSyntax.md "class in javax.print.attribute")

javax.print.attribute.standard.PagesPerMinuteColor

All Implemented Interfaces:
:   `Serializable`, `Cloneable`, `Attribute`, `PrintServiceAttribute`

---

public final class PagesPerMinuteColor
extends [IntegerSyntax](../IntegerSyntax.md "class in javax.print.attribute")
implements [PrintServiceAttribute](../PrintServiceAttribute.md "interface in javax.print.attribute")

Class `PagesPerMinuteColor` is an integer valued printing attribute
that indicates the nominal number of pages per minute to the nearest whole
number which may be generated by this printer when printing color (e.g.,
simplex, color). For purposes of this attribute, "color" means the same as
for the [`ColorSupported`](ColorSupported.md "class in javax.print.attribute.standard") attribute, namely, the device
is capable of any type of color printing at all, including highlight color as
well as full process color. This attribute is informative, not a service
guarantee. Generally, it is the value used in the marketing literature to
describe the color capabilities of this device. A value of 0 indicates a
device that takes more than two minutes to process a page. If a color device
has several color modes, it may use the pages-per- minute value for this
attribute that corresponds to the mode that produces the highest number.

A black and white only printer must not include the
`PagesPerMinuteColor` attribute in its attribute set or service
registration. If this attribute is present, then the
[`ColorSupported`](ColorSupported.md "class in javax.print.attribute.standard") printer description attribute must also
be present and have a value of `SUPPORTED`.

**IPP Compatibility:** The integer value gives the IPP integer value. The
category name returned by `getName()` gives the IPP attribute name.

See Also:
:   * [Serialized Form](../../../../../serialized-form.md#javax.print.attribute.standard.PagesPerMinuteColor)

* ## Constructor Summary

  Constructors

  Constructor

  Description

  `PagesPerMinuteColor(int value)`

  Construct a new pages per minute color attribute with the given integer
  value.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsConcrete Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `boolean`

  `equals(Object object)`

  Returns whether this pages per minute color attribute is equivalent to
  the passed in object.

  `final Class<? extends Attribute>`

  `getCategory()`

  Get the printing attribute class which is to be used as the "category"
  for this printing attribute value.

  `final String`

  `getName()`

  Get the name of the category of which this attribute value is an
  instance.

  ### Methods inherited from class javax.print.attribute.[IntegerSyntax](../IntegerSyntax.md "class in javax.print.attribute")

  `getValue, hashCode, toString`

  ### Methods inherited from class java.lang.[Object](../../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `clone, finalize, getClass, notify, notifyAll, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Constructor Details

  + ### PagesPerMinuteColor

    public PagesPerMinuteColor(int value)

    Construct a new pages per minute color attribute with the given integer
    value.

    Parameters:
    :   `value` - Integer value

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `value` is negative
* ## Method Details

  + ### equals

    public boolean equals([Object](../../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") object)

    Returns whether this pages per minute color attribute is equivalent to
    the passed in object. To be equivalent, all of the following conditions
    must be true:
    1. `object` is not `null`.+ `object` is an instance of class `PagesPerMinuteColor`.+ This pages per minute attribute's value and `object`'s value
           are equal.

    Overrides:
    :   `equals` in class `IntegerSyntax`

    Parameters:
    :   `object` - `Object` to compare to

    Returns:
    :   `true` if `object` is equivalent to this pages per
        minute color attribute, `false` otherwise

    See Also:
    :   - [`Object.hashCode()`](../../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md#hashCode())
        - [`HashMap`](../../../../../java.base/java/util/HashMap.md "class in java.util")
  + ### getCategory

    public final [Class](../../../../../java.base/java/lang/Class.md "class in java.lang")<? extends [Attribute](../Attribute.md "interface in javax.print.attribute")> getCategory()

    Get the printing attribute class which is to be used as the "category"
    for this printing attribute value.

    For class `PagesPerMinuteColor`, the category is class
    `PagesPerMinuteColor` itself.

    Specified by:
    :   `getCategory` in interface `Attribute`

    Returns:
    :   printing attribute class (category), an instance of class
        [`java.lang.Class`](../../../../../java.base/java/lang/Class.md "class in java.lang")
  + ### getName

    public final [String](../../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") getName()

    Get the name of the category of which this attribute value is an
    instance.

    For class `PagesPerMinuteColor`, the category name is
    `"pages-per-minute-color"`.

    Specified by:
    :   `getName` in interface `Attribute`

    Returns:
    :   attribute category name