Module [java.security.jgss](../../../module-summary.md)

Package [org.ietf.jgss](package-summary.md)

# Interface GSSContext

---

public interface GSSContext

This interface encapsulates the GSS-API security context and provides
the security services that are available over the context. Security
contexts are established between peers using locally acquired
credentials. Multiple contexts may exist simultaneously between a pair
of peers, using the same or different set of credentials. GSS-API
functions in a manner independent of the underlying transport protocol
and depends on its calling application to transport the tokens that are
generated by the security context between the peers.

If the caller instantiates the context using the default
`GSSManager` instance, then the Kerberos v5 GSS-API mechanism
is guaranteed to be available for context establishment. This mechanism
is identified by the Oid "1.2.840.113554.1.2.2" and is defined in RFC
1964.

Before the context establishment phase is initiated, the context
initiator may request specific characteristics desired of the
established context. Not all underlying mechanisms support all
characteristics that a caller might desire. After the context is
established, the caller can check the actual characteristics and services
offered by that context by means of various query methods. When using
the Kerberos v5 GSS-API mechanism offered by the default
`GSSManager` instance, all optional services will be
available locally. They are mutual authentication, credential
delegation, confidentiality and integrity protection, and per-message
replay detection and sequencing. Note that in the GSS-API, message integrity
is a prerequisite for message confidentiality.

The context establishment occurs in a loop where the
initiator calls [`initSecContext`](#initSecContext(byte%5B%5D,int,int))
and the acceptor calls [`acceptSecContext`](#acceptSecContext(byte%5B%5D,int,int)) until the context is established. While in this loop
the `initSecContext` and `acceptSecContext`
methods produce tokens that the application sends over to the peer. The
peer passes any such token as input to its `acceptSecContext`
or `initSecContext` as the case may be.

During the context establishment phase, the [`isProtReady`](#isProtReady()) method may be called to determine if the
context can be used for the per-message operations of [`wrap`](#wrap(byte%5B%5D,int,int,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)) and [`getMIC`](#getMIC(byte%5B%5D,int,int,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)). This allows applications to use
per-message operations on contexts which aren't yet fully
established.

After the context has been established or the `isProtReady`
method returns `true`, the query routines can be invoked to
determine the actual characteristics and services of the established
context. The application can also start using the per-message methods
of [`wrap`](#wrap(byte%5B%5D,int,int,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)) and
[`getMIC`](#getMIC(byte%5B%5D,int,int,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)) to obtain
cryptographic operations on application supplied data.

When the context is no longer needed, the application should call
[`dispose`](#dispose()) to release any system resources the context
may be using.

A security context typically maintains sequencing and replay detection
information about the tokens it processes. Therefore, the sequence in
which any tokens are presented to this context for processing can be
important. Also note that none of the methods in this interface are
synchronized. Therefore, it is not advisable to share a
`GSSContext` among several threads unless some application
level synchronization is in place.

Finally, different mechanism providers might place different security
restrictions on using GSS-API contexts. These will be documented by the
mechanism provider. The application will need to ensure that it has the
appropriate permissions if such checks are made in the mechanism layer.

The stream-based methods of `GSSContext` have been deprecated in
Java SE 11. These methods have also been removed from
[RFC 8353: Generic Security Service API Version 2: Java Bindings Update](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8353)
for the following reasons (see section 11): "The overloaded methods of
GSSContext that use input and output streams as the means to convey
authentication and per-message GSS-API tokens as described in Section 5.15
of RFC 5653 are removed in this update as the wire protocol
should be defined by an application and not a library. It's also impossible
to implement these methods correctly when the token has no self-framing
(where the end cannot be determined), or the library has no knowledge of
the token format (for example, as a bridge talking to another GSS library)".
These methods include [`initSecContext(InputStream, OutputStream)`](#initSecContext(java.io.InputStream,java.io.OutputStream)),
[`acceptSecContext(InputStream, OutputStream)`](#acceptSecContext(java.io.InputStream,java.io.OutputStream)),
[`wrap(InputStream, OutputStream, MessageProp)`](#wrap(java.io.InputStream,java.io.OutputStream,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)),
[`unwrap(InputStream, OutputStream, MessageProp)`](#unwrap(java.io.InputStream,java.io.OutputStream,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)),
[`getMIC(InputStream, OutputStream, MessageProp)`](#getMIC(java.io.InputStream,java.io.OutputStream,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)),
and [`verifyMIC(InputStream, InputStream, MessageProp)`](#verifyMIC(java.io.InputStream,java.io.InputStream,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)).

The example code presented below demonstrates the usage of the
`GSSContext` interface for the initiating peer. Different
operations on the `GSSContext` object are presented,
including: object instantiation, setting of desired flags, context
establishment, query of actual context flags, per-message operations on
application data, and finally context deletion.

```
    // Create a context using default credentials
    // and the implementation specific default mechanism
    GSSManager manager = ...
    GSSName targetName = ...
    GSSContext context = manager.createContext(targetName, null, null,
                                           GSSContext.INDEFINITE_LIFETIME);

    // set desired context options prior to context establishment
    context.requestConf(true);
    context.requestMutualAuth(true);
    context.requestReplayDet(true);
    context.requestSequenceDet(true);

    // establish a context between peers

    byte[] inToken = new byte[0];
    byte[] outToken;

    // Loop while there still is a token to be processed

    while (!context.isEstablished()) {

        outToken = context.initSecContext(inToken, 0, inToken.length);

        // send the output token if generated
        if (outToken != null) {
            sendToken(outToken);
        }

        if (!context.isEstablished()) {
            inToken = readToken();
        }
    }

     // display context information
     System.out.println("Remaining lifetime in seconds = "
                                          + context.getLifetime());
     System.out.println("Context mechanism = " + context.getMech());
     System.out.println("Initiator = " + context.getSrcName());
     System.out.println("Acceptor = " + context.getTargName());

     if (context.getConfState()) {
         System.out.println("Confidentiality (i.e., privacy) is available");
     }

     if (context.getIntegState()) {
         System.out.println("Integrity is available");
     }

     // perform wrap on an application supplied message, appMsg,
     // using QOP = 0, and requesting privacy service
     byte[] appMsg = ...

     MessageProp mProp = new MessageProp(0, true);

     outToken = context.wrap(appMsg, 0, appMsg.length, mProp);

     sendToken(outToken);

     // perform unwrap on an incoming application message, and check
     // its privacy state and supplementary information
     inToken = readToken();

     mProp = new MessageProp(0, true);

     appMsg = context.unwrap(inToken, 0, inToken.length, mProp);

     System.out.println("Was it encrypted? " + mProp.getPrivacy());
     System.out.println("Duplicate Token? " + mProp.isDuplicateToken());
     System.out.println("Old Token? " + mProp.isOldToken());
     System.out.println("Unsequenced Token? " + mProp.isUnseqToken());
     System.out.println("Gap Token? " + mProp.isGapToken());

     // the application determines if the privacy state and supplementary
     // information are acceptable

     // release the local-end of the context
     context.dispose();
```

Since:
:   1.4

* ## Field Summary

  Fields

  Modifier and Type

  Field

  Description

  `static final int`

  `DEFAULT_LIFETIME`

  A lifetime constant representing the default context lifetime.

  `static final int`

  `INDEFINITE_LIFETIME`

  A lifetime constant representing indefinite context lifetime.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsAbstract MethodsDeprecated Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `byte[]`

  `acceptSecContext(byte[] inToken,
  int offset,
  int len)`

  Called by the context acceptor upon receiving a token from the
  peer.

  `void`

  `acceptSecContext(InputStream inStream,
  OutputStream outStream)`

  Deprecated.

  The stream-based methods have been removed from RFC 8353.

  `void`

  `dispose()`

  Releases any system resources and cryptographic information stored in
  the context object and invalidates the context.

  `byte[]`

  `export()`

  Exports this context so that another process may
  import it.

  `boolean`

  `getAnonymityState()`

  Determines if the context initiator is
  anonymously authenticated to the context acceptor.

  `boolean`

  `getConfState()`

  Determines if data confidentiality is available
  over the context.

  `boolean`

  `getCredDelegState()`

  Determines if credential delegation is enabled on
  this context.

  `GSSCredential`

  `getDelegCred()`

  Obtains the credentials delegated by the context
  initiator to the context acceptor.

  `boolean`

  `getIntegState()`

  Determines if data integrity is available
  over the context.

  `int`

  `getLifetime()`

  Determines what the remaining lifetime for this
  context is.

  `Oid`

  `getMech()`

  Determines what mechanism is being used for this
  context.

  `byte[]`

  `getMIC(byte[] inMsg,
  int offset,
  int len,
  MessageProp msgProp)`

  Returns a token containing a cryptographic Message Integrity Code
  (MIC) for the supplied message, for transfer to the peer
  application.

  `void`

  `getMIC(InputStream inStream,
  OutputStream outStream,
  MessageProp msgProp)`

  Deprecated.

  The stream-based methods have been removed from RFC 8353.

  `boolean`

  `getMutualAuthState()`

  Determines if mutual authentication is enabled on
  this context.

  `boolean`

  `getReplayDetState()`

  Determines if replay detection is enabled for the
  per-message security services from this context.

  `boolean`

  `getSequenceDetState()`

  Determines if sequence checking is enabled for the
  per-message security services from this context.

  `GSSName`

  `getSrcName()`

  Returns the name of the context initiator.

  `GSSName`

  `getTargName()`

  Returns the name of the context acceptor.

  `int`

  `getWrapSizeLimit(int qop,
  boolean confReq,
  int maxTokenSize)`

  Used to determine limits on the size of the message
  that can be passed to `wrap`.

  `byte[]`

  `initSecContext(byte[] inputBuf,
  int offset,
  int len)`

  Called by the context initiator to start the context creation
  phase and process any tokens generated
  by the peer's `acceptSecContext` method.

  `int`

  `initSecContext(InputStream inStream,
  OutputStream outStream)`

  Deprecated.

  The stream-based methods have been removed from RFC 8353.

  `boolean`

  `isEstablished()`

  Used during context establishment to determine the state of the
  context.

  `boolean`

  `isInitiator()`

  Determines if this is the context initiator.

  `boolean`

  `isProtReady()`

  Determines if the context is ready for per message operations to be
  used over it.

  `boolean`

  `isTransferable()`

  Determines if the context is transferable to other processes
  through the use of the [`export`](#export()) method.

  `void`

  `requestAnonymity(boolean state)`

  Requests that the initiator's identity not be
  disclosed to the acceptor.

  `void`

  `requestConf(boolean state)`

  Requests that data confidentiality be enabled
  for the `wrap` method.

  `void`

  `requestCredDeleg(boolean state)`

  Requests that the initiator's credentials be
  delegated to the acceptor during context establishment.

  `void`

  `requestInteg(boolean state)`

  Requests that data integrity be enabled
  for the `wrap` and `getMIC`methods.

  `void`

  `requestLifetime(int lifetime)`

  Requests a lifetime in seconds for the
  context.

  `void`

  `requestMutualAuth(boolean state)`

  Requests that mutual authentication be done during
  context establishment.

  `void`

  `requestReplayDet(boolean state)`

  Requests that replay detection be enabled for the
  per-message security services after context establishment.

  `void`

  `requestSequenceDet(boolean state)`

  Requests that sequence checking be enabled for the
  per-message security services after context establishment.

  `void`

  `setChannelBinding(ChannelBinding cb)`

  Sets the channel bindings to be used during context
  establishment.

  `byte[]`

  `unwrap(byte[] inBuf,
  int offset,
  int len,
  MessageProp msgProp)`

  Used to process tokens generated by the `wrap` method on
  the other side of the context.

  `void`

  `unwrap(InputStream inStream,
  OutputStream outStream,
  MessageProp msgProp)`

  Deprecated.

  The stream-based methods have been removed from RFC 8353.

  `void`

  `verifyMIC(byte[] inToken,
  int tokOffset,
  int tokLen,
  byte[] inMsg,
  int msgOffset,
  int msgLen,
  MessageProp msgProp)`

  Verifies the cryptographic MIC, contained in the token parameter,
  over the supplied message.

  `void`

  `verifyMIC(InputStream tokStream,
  InputStream msgStream,
  MessageProp msgProp)`

  Deprecated.

  The stream-based methods have been removed from RFC 8353.

  `byte[]`

  `wrap(byte[] inBuf,
  int offset,
  int len,
  MessageProp msgProp)`

  Applies per-message security services over the established security
  context.

  `void`

  `wrap(InputStream inStream,
  OutputStream outStream,
  MessageProp msgProp)`

  Deprecated.

  The stream-based methods have been removed from RFC 8353.

* ## Field Details

  + ### DEFAULT\_LIFETIME

    static final int DEFAULT\_LIFETIME

    A lifetime constant representing the default context lifetime. This
    value is set to 0.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#org.ietf.jgss.GSSContext.DEFAULT_LIFETIME)
  + ### INDEFINITE\_LIFETIME

    static final int INDEFINITE\_LIFETIME

    A lifetime constant representing indefinite context lifetime.
    This value must is set to the maximum integer value in Java -
    [`Integer.MAX_VALUE`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Integer.md#MAX_VALUE).

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#org.ietf.jgss.GSSContext.INDEFINITE_LIFETIME)
* ## Method Details

  + ### initSecContext

    byte[] initSecContext(byte[] inputBuf,
    int offset,
    int len)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Called by the context initiator to start the context creation
    phase and process any tokens generated
    by the peer's `acceptSecContext` method.
    This method may return an output token which the application will need
    to send to the peer for processing by its `acceptSecContext`
    method. The application can call [`isEstablished`](#isEstablished()) to determine if the context establishment phase is
    complete on this side of the context. A return value of
    `false` from `isEstablished` indicates that
    more tokens are expected to be supplied to
    `initSecContext`. Upon completion of the context
    establishment, the available context options may be queried through
    the get methods.

    Note that it is possible that the `initSecContext` method
    return a token for the peer, and `isEstablished` return
    `true` also. This indicates that the token needs to be sent
    to the peer, but the local end of the context is now fully
    established.

    Some mechanism providers might require that the caller be granted
    permission to initiate a security context. A failed permission check
    might cause a [`SecurityException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")
    to be thrown from this method.

    Parameters:
    :   `inputBuf` - token generated by the peer. This parameter is ignored
        on the first call since no token has been received from the peer.
    :   `offset` - the offset within the inputBuf where the token begins.
    :   `len` - the length of the token.

    Returns:
    :   a byte[] containing the token to be sent to the
        peer. `null` indicates that no token is generated.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.DEFECTIVE_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#DEFECTIVE_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.BAD_MIC`](GSSException.md#BAD_MIC),
        [`GSSException.NO_CRED`](GSSException.md#NO_CRED),
        [`GSSException.CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED),
        [`GSSException.BAD_BINDINGS`](GSSException.md#BAD_BINDINGS),
        [`GSSException.OLD_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#OLD_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.DUPLICATE_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#DUPLICATE_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.BAD_NAMETYPE`](GSSException.md#BAD_NAMETYPE),
        [`GSSException.BAD_MECH`](GSSException.md#BAD_MECH),
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### initSecContext

    [@Deprecated](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md "annotation interface in java.lang")([since](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md#since())="11")
    int initSecContext([InputStream](../../../../java.base/java/io/InputStream.md "class in java.io") inStream,
    [OutputStream](../../../../java.base/java/io/OutputStream.md "class in java.io") outStream)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Deprecated.

    The stream-based methods have been removed from RFC 8353.
    Use [`initSecContext(byte[], int, int)`](#initSecContext(byte%5B%5D,int,int)) instead.

    Called by the context initiator to start the context creation
    phase and process any tokens generated
    by the peer's `acceptSecContext` method using
    streams. This method may write an output token to the
    `OutpuStream`, which the application will
    need to send to the peer for processing by its
    `acceptSecContext` call. Typically, the application would
    ensure this by calling the [`flush`](../../../../java.base/java/io/OutputStream.md#flush())
    method on an `OutputStream` that encapsulates the
    connection between the two peers. The application can
    determine if a token is written to the OutputStream from the return
    value of this method. A return value of `0` indicates that
    no token was written. The application can call
    [`isEstablished`](#isEstablished()) to determine if the context
    establishment phase is complete on this side of the context. A
    return value of `false` from `isEstablished`
    indicates that more tokens are expected to be supplied to
    `initSecContext`.
    Upon completion of the context establishment, the available context
    options may be queried through the get methods.

    Note that it is possible that the `initSecContext` method
    return a token for the peer, and `isEstablished` return
    `true` also. This indicates that the token needs to be sent
    to the peer, but the local end of the context is now fully
    established.

    The GSS-API authentication tokens contain a definitive start and
    end. This method will attempt to read one of these tokens per
    invocation, and may block on the stream if only part of the token is
    available. In all other respects this method is equivalent to the
    byte array based [`initSecContext`](#initSecContext(byte%5B%5D,int,int)).

    Some mechanism providers might require that the caller be granted
    permission to initiate a security context. A failed permission check
    might cause a [`SecurityException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")
    to be thrown from this method.

    The following example code demonstrates how this method might be
    used:

    ```
         InputStream is ...
         OutputStream os ...
         GSSContext context ...

         // Loop while there is still a token to be processed

         while (!context.isEstablished()) {

             context.initSecContext(is, os);

             // send output token if generated
             os.flush();
         }
    ```

    Parameters:
    :   `inStream` - an InputStream that contains the token generated by
        the peer. This parameter is ignored on the first call since no token
        has been or will be received from the peer at that point.
    :   `outStream` - an OutputStream where the output token will be
        written. During the final stage of context establishment, there may be
        no bytes written.

    Returns:
    :   the number of bytes written to the OutputStream as part of the
        token to be sent to the peer. A value of 0 indicates that no token
        needs to be sent.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.DEFECTIVE_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#DEFECTIVE_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.BAD_MIC`](GSSException.md#BAD_MIC),
        [`GSSException.NO_CRED`](GSSException.md#NO_CRED),
        [`GSSException.CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED),
        [`GSSException.BAD_BINDINGS`](GSSException.md#BAD_BINDINGS),
        [`GSSException.OLD_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#OLD_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.DUPLICATE_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#DUPLICATE_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.BAD_NAMETYPE`](GSSException.md#BAD_NAMETYPE),
        [`GSSException.BAD_MECH`](GSSException.md#BAD_MECH),
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### acceptSecContext

    byte[] acceptSecContext(byte[] inToken,
    int offset,
    int len)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Called by the context acceptor upon receiving a token from the
    peer. This method may return an output token which the application
    will need to send to the peer for further processing by its
    `initSecContext` call.

    The application can call [`isEstablished`](#isEstablished()) to
    determine if the context establishment phase is complete for this
    peer. A return value of `false` from
    `isEstablished` indicates that more tokens are expected to
    be supplied to this method. Upon completion of the context
    establishment, the available context options may be queried through
    the get methods.

    Note that it is possible that `acceptSecContext` return a
    token for the peer, and `isEstablished` return
    `true` also. This indicates that the token needs to be
    sent to the peer, but the local end of the context is now fully
    established.

    Some mechanism providers might require that the caller be granted
    permission to accept a security context. A failed permission check
    might cause a [`SecurityException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")
    to be thrown from this method.

    The following example code demonstrates how this method might be
    used:

    ```
         byte[] inToken;
         byte[] outToken;
         GSSContext context ...

         // Loop while there is still a token to be processed

         while (!context.isEstablished()) {
             inToken = readToken();
             outToken = context.acceptSecContext(inToken, 0,
                                                 inToken.length);
             // send output token if generated
             if (outToken != null)
                 sendToken(outToken);
         }
    ```

    Parameters:
    :   `inToken` - token generated by the peer.
    :   `offset` - the offset within the inToken where the token begins.
    :   `len` - the length of the token.

    Returns:
    :   a byte[] containing the token to be sent to the
        peer. `null` indicates that no token is generated.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.DEFECTIVE_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#DEFECTIVE_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.BAD_MIC`](GSSException.md#BAD_MIC),
        [`GSSException.NO_CRED`](GSSException.md#NO_CRED),
        [`GSSException.CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED),
        [`GSSException.BAD_BINDINGS`](GSSException.md#BAD_BINDINGS),
        [`GSSException.OLD_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#OLD_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.DUPLICATE_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#DUPLICATE_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.BAD_MECH`](GSSException.md#BAD_MECH),
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### acceptSecContext

    [@Deprecated](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md "annotation interface in java.lang")([since](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md#since())="11")
    void acceptSecContext([InputStream](../../../../java.base/java/io/InputStream.md "class in java.io") inStream,
    [OutputStream](../../../../java.base/java/io/OutputStream.md "class in java.io") outStream)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Deprecated.

    The stream-based methods have been removed from RFC 8353.
    Use [`acceptSecContext(byte[], int, int)`](#acceptSecContext(byte%5B%5D,int,int)) instead.

    Called by the context acceptor to process a token from the peer using
    streams. It may write an output token to the
    `OutputStream`, which the application
    will need to send to the peer for processing by its
    `initSecContext` method. Typically, the application would
    ensure this by calling the [`flush`](../../../../java.base/java/io/OutputStream.md#flush())
    method on an `OutputStream` that encapsulates the
    connection between the two peers. The application can call
    [`isEstablished`](#isEstablished()) to determine if the context
    establishment phase is complete on this side of the context. A
    return value of `false` from `isEstablished`
    indicates that more tokens are expected to be supplied to
    `acceptSecContext`.
    Upon completion of the context establishment, the available context
    options may be queried through the get methods.

    Note that it is possible that `acceptSecContext` return a
    token for the peer, and `isEstablished` return
    `true` also. This indicates that the token needs to be
    sent to the peer, but the local end of the context is now fully
    established.

    The GSS-API authentication tokens contain a definitive start and
    end. This method will attempt to read one of these tokens per
    invocation, and may block on the stream if only part of the token is
    available. In all other respects this method is equivalent to the byte
    array based [`acceptSecContext`](#acceptSecContext(byte%5B%5D,int,int)).

    Some mechanism providers might require that the caller be granted
    permission to accept a security context. A failed permission check
    might cause a [`SecurityException`](../../../../java.base/java/lang/SecurityException.md "class in java.lang")
    to be thrown from this method.

    The following example code demonstrates how this method might be
    used:

    ```
         InputStream is ...
         OutputStream os ...
         GSSContext context ...

         // Loop while there is still a token to be processed

         while (!context.isEstablished()) {

             context.acceptSecContext(is, os);

             // send output token if generated
             os.flush();
         }
    ```

    Parameters:
    :   `inStream` - an InputStream that contains the token generated by
        the peer.
    :   `outStream` - an OutputStream where the output token will be
        written. During the final stage of context establishment, there may be
        no bytes written.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.DEFECTIVE_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#DEFECTIVE_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.BAD_MIC`](GSSException.md#BAD_MIC),
        [`GSSException.NO_CRED`](GSSException.md#NO_CRED),
        [`GSSException.CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED),
        [`GSSException.BAD_BINDINGS`](GSSException.md#BAD_BINDINGS),
        [`GSSException.OLD_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#OLD_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.DUPLICATE_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#DUPLICATE_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.BAD_MECH`](GSSException.md#BAD_MECH),
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### isEstablished

    boolean isEstablished()

    Used during context establishment to determine the state of the
    context.

    Returns:
    :   `true` if this is a fully established context on
        the caller's side and no more tokens are needed from the peer.
  + ### dispose

    void dispose()
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Releases any system resources and cryptographic information stored in
    the context object and invalidates the context.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### getWrapSizeLimit

    int getWrapSizeLimit(int qop,
    boolean confReq,
    int maxTokenSize)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Used to determine limits on the size of the message
    that can be passed to `wrap`. Returns the maximum
    message size that, if presented to the `wrap` method with
    the same `confReq` and `qop` parameters, will
    result in an output token containing no more
    than `maxTokenSize` bytes.

    This call is intended for use by applications that communicate over
    protocols that impose a maximum message size. It enables the
    application to fragment messages prior to applying protection.

    GSS-API implementations are recommended but not required to detect
    invalid QOP values when `getWrapSizeLimit` is called.
    This routine guarantees only a maximum message size, not the
    availability of specific QOP values for message protection.

    Parameters:
    :   `qop` - the level of protection wrap will be asked to provide.
    :   `confReq` - `true` if wrap will be asked to provide
        privacy, `false` otherwise.
    :   `maxTokenSize` - the desired maximum size of the token emitted by
        wrap.

    Returns:
    :   the maximum size of the input token for the given output
        token size

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.CONTEXT_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CONTEXT_EXPIRED),
        [`GSSException.BAD_QOP`](GSSException.md#BAD_QOP),
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### wrap

    byte[] wrap(byte[] inBuf,
    int offset,
    int len,
    [MessageProp](MessageProp.md "class in org.ietf.jgss") msgProp)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Applies per-message security services over the established security
    context. The method will return a token with the
    application supplied data and a cryptographic MIC over it.
    The data may be encrypted if confidentiality (privacy) was
    requested.

    The MessageProp object is instantiated by the application and used
    to specify a QOP value which selects cryptographic algorithms, and a
    privacy service to optionally encrypt the message. The underlying
    mechanism that is used in the call may not be able to provide the
    privacy service. It sets the actual privacy service that it does
    provide in this MessageProp object which the caller should then
    query upon return. If the mechanism is not able to provide the
    requested QOP, it throws a GSSException with the BAD\_QOP code.

    Since some application-level protocols may wish to use tokens
    emitted by wrap to provide "secure framing", implementations should
    support the wrapping of zero-length messages.

    The application will be responsible for sending the token to the
    peer.

    Parameters:
    :   `inBuf` - application data to be protected.
    :   `offset` - the offset within the inBuf where the data begins.
    :   `len` - the length of the data
    :   `msgProp` - instance of MessageProp that is used by the
        application to set the desired QOP and privacy state. Set the
        desired QOP to 0 to request the default QOP. Upon return from this
        method, this object will contain the actual privacy state that
        was applied to the message by the underlying mechanism.

    Returns:
    :   a byte[] containing the token to be sent to the peer.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following major error codes:
        [`GSSException.CONTEXT_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CONTEXT_EXPIRED),
        [`GSSException.BAD_QOP`](GSSException.md#BAD_QOP),
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### wrap

    [@Deprecated](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md "annotation interface in java.lang")([since](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md#since())="11")
    void wrap([InputStream](../../../../java.base/java/io/InputStream.md "class in java.io") inStream,
    [OutputStream](../../../../java.base/java/io/OutputStream.md "class in java.io") outStream,
    [MessageProp](MessageProp.md "class in org.ietf.jgss") msgProp)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Deprecated.

    The stream-based methods have been removed from RFC 8353.
    Use [`wrap(byte[], int, int, MessageProp)`](#wrap(byte%5B%5D,int,int,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)) instead.

    Applies per-message security services over the established security
    context using streams. The method will return a
    token with the application supplied data and a cryptographic MIC over it.
    The data may be encrypted if confidentiality
    (privacy) was requested. This method is equivalent to the byte array
    based [`wrap`](#wrap(byte%5B%5D,int,int,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)) method.

    The application will be responsible for sending the token to the
    peer. Typically, the application would
    ensure this by calling the [`flush`](../../../../java.base/java/io/OutputStream.md#flush())
    method on an `OutputStream` that encapsulates the
    connection between the two peers.

    The MessageProp object is instantiated by the application and used
    to specify a QOP value which selects cryptographic algorithms, and a
    privacy service to optionally encrypt the message. The underlying
    mechanism that is used in the call may not be able to provide the
    privacy service. It sets the actual privacy service that it does
    provide in this MessageProp object which the caller should then
    query upon return. If the mechanism is not able to provide the
    requested QOP, it throws a GSSException with the BAD\_QOP code.

    Since some application-level protocols may wish to use tokens
    emitted by wrap to provide "secure framing", implementations should
    support the wrapping of zero-length messages.

    Parameters:
    :   `inStream` - an InputStream containing the application data to be
        protected. All the data that is available in
        inStream is used.
    :   `outStream` - an OutputStream to write the protected message
        to.
    :   `msgProp` - instance of MessageProp that is used by the
        application to set the desired QOP and privacy state. Set the
        desired QOP to 0 to request the default QOP. Upon return from this
        method, this object will contain the actual privacy state that
        was applied to the message by the underlying mechanism.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.CONTEXT_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CONTEXT_EXPIRED),
        [`GSSException.BAD_QOP`](GSSException.md#BAD_QOP),
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### unwrap

    byte[] unwrap(byte[] inBuf,
    int offset,
    int len,
    [MessageProp](MessageProp.md "class in org.ietf.jgss") msgProp)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Used to process tokens generated by the `wrap` method on
    the other side of the context. The method will return the message
    supplied by the peer application to its wrap call, while at the same
    time verifying the embedded MIC for that message.

    The MessageProp object is instantiated by the application and is
    used by the underlying mechanism to return information to the caller
    such as the QOP, whether confidentiality was applied to the message,
    and other supplementary message state information.

    Since some application-level protocols may wish to use tokens
    emitted by wrap to provide "secure framing", implementations should
    support the wrapping and unwrapping of zero-length messages.

    Parameters:
    :   `inBuf` - a byte array containing the wrap token received from
        peer.
    :   `offset` - the offset where the token begins.
    :   `len` - the length of the token
    :   `msgProp` - upon return from the method, this object will contain
        the applied QOP, the privacy state of the message, and supplementary
        information stating if the token was a duplicate, old, out of
        sequence or arriving after a gap.

    Returns:
    :   a byte[] containing the message unwrapped from the input
        token.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.DEFECTIVE_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#DEFECTIVE_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.BAD_MIC`](GSSException.md#BAD_MIC),
        [`GSSException.CONTEXT_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CONTEXT_EXPIRED),
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### unwrap

    [@Deprecated](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md "annotation interface in java.lang")([since](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md#since())="11")
    void unwrap([InputStream](../../../../java.base/java/io/InputStream.md "class in java.io") inStream,
    [OutputStream](../../../../java.base/java/io/OutputStream.md "class in java.io") outStream,
    [MessageProp](MessageProp.md "class in org.ietf.jgss") msgProp)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Deprecated.

    The stream-based methods have been removed from RFC 8353.
    Use [`unwrap(byte[], int, int, MessageProp)`](#unwrap(byte%5B%5D,int,int,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)) instead.

    Uses streams to process tokens generated by the `wrap`
    method on the other side of the context. The method will return the
    message supplied by the peer application to its wrap call, while at
    the same time verifying the embedded MIC for that message.

    The MessageProp object is instantiated by the application and is
    used by the underlying mechanism to return information to the caller
    such as the QOP, whether confidentiality was applied to the message,
    and other supplementary message state information.

    Since some application-level protocols may wish to use tokens
    emitted by wrap to provide "secure framing", implementations should
    support the wrapping and unwrapping of zero-length messages.

    The format of the input token that this method
    reads is defined in the specification for the underlying mechanism that
    will be used. This method will attempt to read one of these tokens per
    invocation. If the mechanism token contains a definitive start and
    end this method may block on the `InputStream` if only
    part of the token is available. If the start and end of the token
    are not definitive then the method will attempt to treat all
    available bytes as part of the token.

    Other than the possible blocking behavior described above, this
    method is equivalent to the byte array based [`unwrap`](#unwrap(byte%5B%5D,int,int,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)) method.

    Parameters:
    :   `inStream` - an InputStream that contains the wrap token generated
        by the peer.
    :   `outStream` - an OutputStream to write the application message
        to.
    :   `msgProp` - upon return from the method, this object will contain
        the applied QOP, the privacy state of the message, and supplementary
        information stating if the token was a duplicate, old, out of
        sequence or arriving after a gap.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.DEFECTIVE_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#DEFECTIVE_TOKEN),
        [`GSSException.BAD_MIC`](GSSException.md#BAD_MIC),
        [`GSSException.CONTEXT_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CONTEXT_EXPIRED),
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### getMIC

    byte[] getMIC(byte[] inMsg,
    int offset,
    int len,
    [MessageProp](MessageProp.md "class in org.ietf.jgss") msgProp)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Returns a token containing a cryptographic Message Integrity Code
    (MIC) for the supplied message, for transfer to the peer
    application. Unlike wrap, which encapsulates the user message in the
    returned token, only the message MIC is returned in the output
    token.

    Note that privacy can only be applied through the wrap call.

    Since some application-level protocols may wish to use tokens emitted
    by getMIC to provide "secure framing", implementations should support
    derivation of MICs from zero-length messages.

    Parameters:
    :   `inMsg` - the message to generate the MIC over.
    :   `offset` - offset within the inMsg where the message begins.
    :   `len` - the length of the message
    :   `msgProp` - an instance of `MessageProp` that is used
        by the application to set the desired QOP. Set the desired QOP to
        `0` in `msgProp` to request the default
        QOP. Alternatively pass in `null` for `msgProp`
        to request the default QOP.

    Returns:
    :   a byte[] containing the token to be sent to the peer.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.CONTEXT_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CONTEXT_EXPIRED),
        [`GSSException.BAD_QOP`](GSSException.md#BAD_QOP),
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### getMIC

    [@Deprecated](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md "annotation interface in java.lang")([since](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md#since())="11")
    void getMIC([InputStream](../../../../java.base/java/io/InputStream.md "class in java.io") inStream,
    [OutputStream](../../../../java.base/java/io/OutputStream.md "class in java.io") outStream,
    [MessageProp](MessageProp.md "class in org.ietf.jgss") msgProp)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Deprecated.

    The stream-based methods have been removed from RFC 8353.
    Use [`getMIC(byte[], int, int, MessageProp)`](#getMIC(byte%5B%5D,int,int,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)) instead.

    Uses streams to produce a token containing a cryptographic MIC for
    the supplied message, for transfer to the peer application.
    Unlike wrap, which encapsulates the user message in the returned
    token, only the message MIC is produced in the output token. This
    method is equivalent to the byte array based [`getMIC`](#getMIC(byte%5B%5D,int,int,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)) method.
    Note that privacy can only be applied through the wrap call.

    Since some application-level protocols may wish to use tokens emitted
    by getMIC to provide "secure framing", implementations should support
    derivation of MICs from zero-length messages.

    Parameters:
    :   `inStream` - an InputStream containing the message to generate the
        MIC over. All the data that is available in
        inStream is used.
    :   `outStream` - an OutputStream to write the output token to.
    :   `msgProp` - an instance of `MessageProp` that is used
        by the application to set the desired QOP. Set the desired QOP to
        `0` in `msgProp` to request the default
        QOP. Alternatively pass in `null` for `msgProp`
        to request the default QOP.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.CONTEXT_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CONTEXT_EXPIRED),
        [`GSSException.BAD_QOP`](GSSException.md#BAD_QOP),
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### verifyMIC

    void verifyMIC(byte[] inToken,
    int tokOffset,
    int tokLen,
    byte[] inMsg,
    int msgOffset,
    int msgLen,
    [MessageProp](MessageProp.md "class in org.ietf.jgss") msgProp)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Verifies the cryptographic MIC, contained in the token parameter,
    over the supplied message.

    The MessageProp object is instantiated by the application and is used
    by the underlying mechanism to return information to the caller such
    as the QOP indicating the strength of protection that was applied to
    the message and other supplementary message state information.

    Since some application-level protocols may wish to use tokens emitted
    by getMIC to provide "secure framing", implementations should support
    the calculation and verification of MICs over zero-length messages.

    Parameters:
    :   `inToken` - the token generated by peer's getMIC method.
    :   `tokOffset` - the offset within the inToken where the token
        begins.
    :   `tokLen` - the length of the token.
    :   `inMsg` - the application message to verify the cryptographic MIC
        over.
    :   `msgOffset` - the offset in inMsg where the message begins.
    :   `msgLen` - the length of the message.
    :   `msgProp` - upon return from the method, this object will contain
        the applied QOP and supplementary information stating if the token
        was a duplicate, old, out of sequence or arriving after a gap.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.DEFECTIVE_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#DEFECTIVE_TOKEN)
        [`GSSException.BAD_MIC`](GSSException.md#BAD_MIC)
        [`GSSException.CONTEXT_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CONTEXT_EXPIRED)
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### verifyMIC

    [@Deprecated](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md "annotation interface in java.lang")([since](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md#since())="11")
    void verifyMIC([InputStream](../../../../java.base/java/io/InputStream.md "class in java.io") tokStream,
    [InputStream](../../../../java.base/java/io/InputStream.md "class in java.io") msgStream,
    [MessageProp](MessageProp.md "class in org.ietf.jgss") msgProp)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Deprecated.

    The stream-based methods have been removed from RFC 8353.
    Use [`verifyMIC(byte[], int, int, byte[], int, int, MessageProp)`](#verifyMIC(byte%5B%5D,int,int,byte%5B%5D,int,int,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp))
    instead.

    Uses streams to verify the cryptographic MIC, contained in the token
    parameter, over the supplied message. This method is equivalent to
    the byte array based [`verifyMIC`](#verifyMIC(byte%5B%5D,int,int,byte%5B%5D,int,int,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)) method.
    The MessageProp object is instantiated by the application and is used
    by the underlying mechanism to return information to the caller such
    as the QOP indicating the strength of protection that was applied to
    the message and other supplementary message state information.

    Since some application-level protocols may wish to use tokens emitted
    by getMIC to provide "secure framing", implementations should support
    the calculation and verification of MICs over zero-length messages.

    The format of the input token that this method
    reads is defined in the specification for the underlying mechanism that
    will be used. This method will attempt to read one of these tokens per
    invocation. If the mechanism token contains a definitive start and
    end this method may block on the `InputStream` if only
    part of the token is available. If the start and end of the token
    are not definitive then the method will attempt to treat all
    available bytes as part of the token.

    Other than the possible blocking behavior described above, this
    method is equivalent to the byte array based [`verifyMIC`](#verifyMIC(byte%5B%5D,int,int,byte%5B%5D,int,int,org.ietf.jgss.MessageProp)) method.

    Parameters:
    :   `tokStream` - an InputStream containing the token generated by the
        peer's getMIC method.
    :   `msgStream` - an InputStream containing the application message to
        verify the cryptographic MIC over. All the data
        that is available in msgStream is used.
    :   `msgProp` - upon return from the method, this object will contain
        the applied QOP and supplementary information stating if the token
        was a duplicate, old, out of sequence or arriving after a gap.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.DEFECTIVE_TOKEN`](GSSException.md#DEFECTIVE_TOKEN)
        [`GSSException.BAD_MIC`](GSSException.md#BAD_MIC)
        [`GSSException.CONTEXT_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CONTEXT_EXPIRED)
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### export

    byte[] export()
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Exports this context so that another process may
    import it. Provided to support the sharing of work between
    multiple processes. This routine will typically be used by the
    context-acceptor, in an application where a single process receives
    incoming connection requests and accepts security contexts over
    them, then passes the established context to one or more other
    processes for message exchange.

    This method deactivates the security context and creates an
    interprocess token which, when passed to [`GSSManager.createContext`](GSSManager.md#createContext(byte%5B%5D)) in
    another process, will re-activate the context in the second process.
    Only a single instantiation of a given context may be active at any
    one time; a subsequent attempt by a context exporter to access the
    exported security context will fail.

    The implementation may constrain the set of processes by which the
    interprocess token may be imported, either as a function of local
    security policy, or as a result of implementation decisions. For
    example, some implementations may constrain contexts to be passed
    only between processes that run under the same account, or which are
    part of the same process group.

    The interprocess token may contain security-sensitive information
    (for example cryptographic keys). While mechanisms are encouraged
    to either avoid placing such sensitive information within
    interprocess tokens, or to encrypt the token before returning it to
    the application, in a typical GSS-API implementation this may not be
    possible. Thus, the application must take care to protect the
    interprocess token, and ensure that any process to which the token
    is transferred is trustworthy.

    Implementations are not required to support the inter-process
    transfer of security contexts. Calling the [`isTransferable`](#isTransferable()) method will indicate if the context object is
    transferable.

    Calling this method on a context that
    is not exportable will result in this exception being thrown with
    the error code [`GSSException.UNAVAILABLE`](GSSException.md#UNAVAILABLE).

    Returns:
    :   a byte[] containing the exported context

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.UNAVAILABLE`](GSSException.md#UNAVAILABLE),
        [`GSSException.CONTEXT_EXPIRED`](GSSException.md#CONTEXT_EXPIRED),
        [`GSSException.NO_CONTEXT`](GSSException.md#NO_CONTEXT),
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)

    See Also:
    :   - [`GSSManager.createContext(byte[])`](GSSManager.md#createContext(byte%5B%5D))
  + ### requestMutualAuth

    void requestMutualAuth(boolean state)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Requests that mutual authentication be done during
    context establishment. This request can only be made on the context
    initiator's side, and it has to be done prior to the first call to
    `initSecContext`.

    Not all mechanisms support mutual authentication and some mechanisms
    might require mutual authentication even if the application
    doesn't. Therefore, the application should check to see if the
    request was honored with the [`getMutualAuthState`](#getMutualAuthState()) method.

    Parameters:
    :   `state` - a boolean value indicating whether mutual
        authentication should be used or not.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)

    See Also:
    :   - [`getMutualAuthState()`](#getMutualAuthState())
  + ### requestReplayDet

    void requestReplayDet(boolean state)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Requests that replay detection be enabled for the
    per-message security services after context establishment. This
    request can only be made on the context initiator's side, and it has
    to be done prior to the first call to
    `initSecContext`. During context establishment replay
    detection is not an option and is a function of the underlying
    mechanism's capabilities.

    Not all mechanisms support replay detection and some mechanisms
    might require replay detection even if the application
    doesn't. Therefore, the application should check to see if the
    request was honored with the [`getReplayDetState`](#getReplayDetState()) method. If replay detection is enabled then the
    [`MessageProp.isDuplicateToken`](MessageProp.md#isDuplicateToken()) and [`MessageProp.isOldToken`](MessageProp.md#isOldToken()) methods will return
    valid results for the `MessageProp` object that is passed
    in to the `unwrap` method or the `verifyMIC`
    method.

    Parameters:
    :   `state` - a boolean value indicating whether replay detection
        should be enabled over the established context or not.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)

    See Also:
    :   - [`getReplayDetState()`](#getReplayDetState())
  + ### requestSequenceDet

    void requestSequenceDet(boolean state)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Requests that sequence checking be enabled for the
    per-message security services after context establishment. This
    request can only be made on the context initiator's side, and it has
    to be done prior to the first call to
    `initSecContext`. During context establishment sequence
    checking is not an option and is a function of the underlying
    mechanism's capabilities.

    Not all mechanisms support sequence checking and some mechanisms
    might require sequence checking even if the application
    doesn't. Therefore, the application should check to see if the
    request was honored with the [`getSequenceDetState`](#getSequenceDetState()) method. If sequence checking is enabled then the
    [`MessageProp.isDuplicateToken`](MessageProp.md#isDuplicateToken()),
    [`MessageProp.isOldToken`](MessageProp.md#isOldToken()),
    [`MessageProp.isUnseqToken`](MessageProp.md#isUnseqToken()), and
    [`MessageProp.isGapToken`](MessageProp.md#isGapToken()) methods will return
    valid results for the `MessageProp` object that is passed
    in to the `unwrap` method or the `verifyMIC`
    method.

    Parameters:
    :   `state` - a boolean value indicating whether sequence checking
        should be enabled over the established context or not.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)

    See Also:
    :   - [`getSequenceDetState()`](#getSequenceDetState())
  + ### requestCredDeleg

    void requestCredDeleg(boolean state)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Requests that the initiator's credentials be
    delegated to the acceptor during context establishment. This
    request can only be made on the context initiator's side, and it has
    to be done prior to the first call to
    `initSecContext`.
    Not all mechanisms support credential delegation. Therefore, an
    application that desires delegation should check to see if the
    request was honored with the [`getCredDelegState`](#getCredDelegState()) method. If the application indicates that
    delegation must not be used, then the mechanism will honor the
    request and delegation will not occur. This is an exception
    to the general rule that a mechanism may enable a service even if it
    is not requested.

    Parameters:
    :   `state` - a boolean value indicating whether the credentials
        should be delegated or not.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)

    See Also:
    :   - [`getCredDelegState()`](#getCredDelegState())
  + ### requestAnonymity

    void requestAnonymity(boolean state)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Requests that the initiator's identity not be
    disclosed to the acceptor. This request can only be made on the
    context initiator's side, and it has to be done prior to the first
    call to `initSecContext`.
    Not all mechanisms support anonymity for the initiator. Therefore, the
    application should check to see if the request was honored with the
    [`getAnonymityState`](#getAnonymityState()) method.

    Parameters:
    :   `state` - a boolean value indicating if the initiator should
        be authenticated to the acceptor as an anonymous principal.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)

    See Also:
    :   - [`getAnonymityState()`](#getAnonymityState())
  + ### requestConf

    void requestConf(boolean state)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Requests that data confidentiality be enabled
    for the `wrap` method. This request can only be made on
    the context initiator's side, and it has to be done prior to the
    first call to `initSecContext`.
    Not all mechanisms support confidentiality and other mechanisms
    might enable it even if the application doesn't request
    it. The application may check to see if the request was honored with
    the [`getConfState`](#getConfState()) method. If confidentiality
    is enabled, only then will the mechanism honor a request for privacy
    in the [`MessageProp`](MessageProp.md#%3Cinit%3E(int,boolean))
    object that is passed in to the `wrap` method.

    Enabling confidentiality will also automatically enable
    integrity.

    Parameters:
    :   `state` - a boolean value indicating whether confidentiality
        should be enabled or not.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)

    See Also:
    :   - [`getConfState()`](#getConfState())
        - [`getIntegState()`](#getIntegState())
        - [`requestInteg(boolean)`](#requestInteg(boolean))
        - [`MessageProp`](MessageProp.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")
  + ### requestInteg

    void requestInteg(boolean state)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Requests that data integrity be enabled
    for the `wrap` and `getMIC`methods. This
    request can only be made on the context initiator's side, and it has
    to be done prior to the first call to `initSecContext`.
    Not all mechanisms support integrity and other mechanisms
    might enable it even if the application doesn't request
    it. The application may check to see if the request was honored with
    the [`getIntegState`](#getIntegState()) method.

    Disabling integrity will also automatically disable
    confidentiality.

    Parameters:
    :   `state` - a boolean value indicating whether integrity
        should be enabled or not.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)

    See Also:
    :   - [`getIntegState()`](#getIntegState())
  + ### requestLifetime

    void requestLifetime(int lifetime)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Requests a lifetime in seconds for the
    context. This method can only be called on the context initiator's
    side, and it has to be done prior to the first call to
    `initSecContext`.

    The actual lifetime of the context will depend on the capabilities of
    the underlying mechanism and the application should call the [`getLifetime`](#getLifetime()) method to determine this.

    Parameters:
    :   `lifetime` - the desired context lifetime in seconds. Use
        `INDEFINITE_LIFETIME` to request an indefinite lifetime
        and `DEFAULT_LIFETIME` to request a default lifetime.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)

    See Also:
    :   - [`getLifetime()`](#getLifetime())
  + ### setChannelBinding

    void setChannelBinding([ChannelBinding](ChannelBinding.md "class in org.ietf.jgss") cb)
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Sets the channel bindings to be used during context
    establishment. This method can be called on both
    the context initiator's and the context acceptor's side, but it must
    be called before context establishment begins. This means that an
    initiator must call it before the first call to
    `initSecContext` and the acceptor must call it before the
    first call to `acceptSecContext`.

    Parameters:
    :   `cb` - the channel bindings to use.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### getCredDelegState

    boolean getCredDelegState()

    Determines if credential delegation is enabled on
    this context. It can be called by both the context initiator and the
    context acceptor. For a definitive answer this method must be
    called only after context establishment is complete. Note that if an
    initiator requests that delegation not be allowed the [`requestCredDeleg`](#requestCredDeleg(boolean)) method will honor that
    request and this method will return `false` on the
    initiator's side from that point onwards.

    Returns:
    :   true if delegation is enabled, false otherwise.

    See Also:
    :   - [`requestCredDeleg(boolean)`](#requestCredDeleg(boolean))
  + ### getMutualAuthState

    boolean getMutualAuthState()

    Determines if mutual authentication is enabled on
    this context. It can be called by both the context initiator and the
    context acceptor. For a definitive answer this method must be
    called only after context establishment is complete. An initiator
    that requests mutual authentication can call this method after
    context completion and dispose the context if its request was not
    honored.

    Returns:
    :   true if mutual authentication is enabled, false otherwise.

    See Also:
    :   - [`requestMutualAuth(boolean)`](#requestMutualAuth(boolean))
  + ### getReplayDetState

    boolean getReplayDetState()

    Determines if replay detection is enabled for the
    per-message security services from this context. It can be called by
    both the context initiator and the context acceptor. For a
    definitive answer this method must be called only after context
    establishment is complete. An initiator that requests replay
    detection can call this method after context completion and
    dispose the context if its request was not honored.

    Returns:
    :   true if replay detection is enabled, false otherwise.

    See Also:
    :   - [`requestReplayDet(boolean)`](#requestReplayDet(boolean))
  + ### getSequenceDetState

    boolean getSequenceDetState()

    Determines if sequence checking is enabled for the
    per-message security services from this context. It can be called by
    both the context initiator and the context acceptor. For a
    definitive answer this method must be called only after context
    establishment is complete. An initiator that requests sequence
    checking can call this method after context completion and
    dispose the context if its request was not honored.

    Returns:
    :   true if sequence checking is enabled, false otherwise.

    See Also:
    :   - [`requestSequenceDet(boolean)`](#requestSequenceDet(boolean))
  + ### getAnonymityState

    boolean getAnonymityState()

    Determines if the context initiator is
    anonymously authenticated to the context acceptor. It can be called by
    both the context initiator and the context acceptor, and at any
    time. **On the initiator side, a call to this method determines
    if the identity of the initiator has been disclosed in any of the
    context establishment tokens that might have been generated thus far
    by `initSecContext`. An initiator that absolutely must be
    authenticated anonymously should call this method after each call to
    `initSecContext` to determine if the generated token
    should be sent to the peer or the context aborted.** On the
    acceptor side, a call to this method determines if any of the tokens
    processed by `acceptSecContext` thus far have divulged
    the identity of the initiator.

    Returns:
    :   true if the context initiator is still anonymous, false
        otherwise.

    See Also:
    :   - [`requestAnonymity(boolean)`](#requestAnonymity(boolean))
  + ### isTransferable

    boolean isTransferable()
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Determines if the context is transferable to other processes
    through the use of the [`export`](#export()) method. This call
    is only valid on fully established contexts.

    Returns:
    :   true if this context can be exported, false otherwise.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### isProtReady

    boolean isProtReady()

    Determines if the context is ready for per message operations to be
    used over it. Some mechanisms may allow the usage of the
    per-message operations before the context is fully established.

    Returns:
    :   true if methods like `wrap`, `unwrap`,
        `getMIC`, and `verifyMIC` can be used with
        this context at the current stage of context establishment, false
        otherwise.
  + ### getConfState

    boolean getConfState()

    Determines if data confidentiality is available
    over the context. This method can be called by both the context
    initiator and the context acceptor, but only after one of [`isProtReady`](#isProtReady()) or [`isEstablished`](#isEstablished()) return `true`. If this method returns
    `true`, so will [`getIntegState`](#getIntegState())

    Returns:
    :   true if confidentiality services are available, false
        otherwise.

    See Also:
    :   - [`requestConf(boolean)`](#requestConf(boolean))
  + ### getIntegState

    boolean getIntegState()

    Determines if data integrity is available
    over the context. This method can be called by both the context
    initiator and the context acceptor, but only after one of [`isProtReady`](#isProtReady()) or [`isEstablished`](#isEstablished()) return `true`. This method will always
    return `true` if [`getConfState`](#getConfState())
    returns true.

    Returns:
    :   true if integrity services are available, false otherwise.

    See Also:
    :   - [`requestInteg(boolean)`](#requestInteg(boolean))
  + ### getLifetime

    int getLifetime()

    Determines what the remaining lifetime for this
    context is. It can be called by both the context initiator and the
    context acceptor, but for a definitive answer it should be called
    only after [`isEstablished`](#isEstablished()) returns
    true.

    Returns:
    :   the remaining lifetime in seconds

    See Also:
    :   - [`requestLifetime(int)`](#requestLifetime(int))
  + ### getSrcName

    [GSSName](GSSName.md "interface in org.ietf.jgss") getSrcName()
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Returns the name of the context initiator. This call is valid only
    after one of [`isProtReady`](#isProtReady()) or [`isEstablished`](#isEstablished()) return `true`.

    Returns:
    :   a GSSName that is an MN containing the name of the context
        initiator.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)

    See Also:
    :   - [`GSSName`](GSSName.md "interface in org.ietf.jgss")
  + ### getTargName

    [GSSName](GSSName.md "interface in org.ietf.jgss") getTargName()
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Returns the name of the context acceptor. This call is valid only
    after one of [`isProtReady`](#isProtReady()) or [`isEstablished`](#isEstablished()) return `true`.

    Returns:
    :   a GSSName that is an MN containing the name of the context
        acceptor.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### getMech

    [Oid](Oid.md "class in org.ietf.jgss") getMech()
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Determines what mechanism is being used for this
    context. This method may be called before the context is fully
    established, but the mechanism returned may change on successive
    calls in the negotiated mechanism case.

    Returns:
    :   the Oid of the mechanism being used

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### getDelegCred

    [GSSCredential](GSSCredential.md "interface in org.ietf.jgss") getDelegCred()
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Obtains the credentials delegated by the context
    initiator to the context acceptor. It should be called only on the
    context acceptor's side, and once the context is fully
    established. The caller can use the method [`getCredDelegState`](#getCredDelegState()) to determine if there are
    any delegated credentials.

    Returns:
    :   a GSSCredential containing the initiator's delegated
        credentials, or `null` is no credentials
        were delegated.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)
  + ### isInitiator

    boolean isInitiator()
    throws [GSSException](GSSException.md "class in org.ietf.jgss")

    Determines if this is the context initiator. This
    can be called on both the context initiator's and context acceptor's
    side.

    Returns:
    :   true if this is the context initiator, false if it is the
        context acceptor.

    Throws:
    :   `GSSException` - containing the following
        major error codes:
        [`GSSException.FAILURE`](GSSException.md#FAILURE)