Module [java.desktop](../../module-summary.md)

Package [javax.swing](package-summary.md)

# Class JViewport

[java.lang.Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

[java.awt.Component](../../java/awt/Component.md "class in java.awt")

[java.awt.Container](../../java/awt/Container.md "class in java.awt")

[javax.swing.JComponent](JComponent.md "class in javax.swing")

javax.swing.JViewport

All Implemented Interfaces:
:   `ImageObserver`, `MenuContainer`, `Serializable`, `Accessible`

---

public class JViewport
extends [JComponent](JComponent.md "class in javax.swing")
implements [Accessible](../accessibility/Accessible.md "interface in javax.accessibility")

The "viewport" or "porthole" through which you see the underlying
information. When you scroll, what moves is the viewport. It is like
peering through a camera's viewfinder. Moving the viewfinder upwards
brings new things into view at the top of the picture and loses
things that were at the bottom.

By default, `JViewport` is opaque. To change this, use the
`setOpaque` method.

**NOTE:**We have implemented a faster scrolling algorithm that
does not require a buffer to draw in. The algorithm works as follows:

1. The view and parent view are checked to see if they are
   `JComponents`,
   if they aren't, stop and repaint the whole viewport.- If the viewport is obscured by an ancestor, stop and repaint the whole
     viewport.- Compute the region that will become visible, if it is as big as
       the viewport, stop and repaint the whole view region.- Obtain the ancestor `Window`'s graphics and
         do a `copyArea` on the scrolled region.- Message the view to repaint the newly visible region.- The next time paint is invoked on the viewport, if the clip region
             is smaller than the viewport size a timer is kicked off to repaint the
             whole region.

In general this approach is much faster. Compared to the backing store
approach this avoids the overhead of maintaining an offscreen buffer and
having to do two `copyArea`s.
Compared to the non backing store case this
approach will greatly reduce the painted region.

This approach can cause slower times than the backing store approach
when the viewport is obscured by another window, or partially offscreen.
When another window
obscures the viewport the copyArea will copy garbage and a
paint event will be generated by the system to inform us we need to
paint the newly exposed region. The only way to handle this is to
repaint the whole viewport, which can cause slower performance than the
backing store case. In most applications very rarely will the user be
scrolling while the viewport is obscured by another window or offscreen,
so this optimization is usually worth the performance hit when obscured.

**Warning:** Swing is not thread safe. For more
information see [Swing's Threading
Policy](package-summary.md#threading).

**Warning:**
Serialized objects of this class will not be compatible with
future Swing releases. The current serialization support is
appropriate for short term storage or RMI between applications running
the same version of Swing. As of 1.4, support for long term storage
of all JavaBeans
has been added to the `java.beans` package.
Please see [`XMLEncoder`](../../java/beans/XMLEncoder.md "class in java.beans").

Since:
:   1.2

See Also:
:   * [`JScrollPane`](JScrollPane.md "class in javax.swing")

* ## Nested Class Summary

  Nested Classes

  Modifier and Type

  Class

  Description

  `protected class`

  `JViewport.AccessibleJViewport`

  This class implements accessibility support for the
  `JViewport` class.

  `protected class`

  `JViewport.ViewListener`

  A listener for the view.

  ## Nested classes/interfaces inherited from class javax.swing.[JComponent](JComponent.md "class in javax.swing")

  `JComponent.AccessibleJComponent`

  ## Nested classes/interfaces inherited from class java.awt.[Container](../../java/awt/Container.md "class in java.awt")

  `Container.AccessibleAWTContainer`

  ## Nested classes/interfaces inherited from class java.awt.[Component](../../java/awt/Component.md "class in java.awt")

  `Component.AccessibleAWTComponent, Component.BaselineResizeBehavior, Component.BltBufferStrategy, Component.FlipBufferStrategy`
* ## Field Summary

  Fields

  Modifier and Type

  Field

  Description

  `protected boolean`

  `backingStore`

  Deprecated.

  As of Java 2 platform v1.3

  `static final int`

  `BACKINGSTORE_SCROLL_MODE`

  Draws viewport contents into an offscreen image.

  `protected Image`

  `backingStoreImage`

  The view image used for a backing store.

  `static final int`

  `BLIT_SCROLL_MODE`

  Use `graphics.copyArea` to implement scrolling.

  `protected boolean`

  `isViewSizeSet`

  True when the viewport dimensions have been determined.

  `protected Point`

  `lastPaintPosition`

  The last `viewPosition` that we've painted, so we know how
  much of the backing store image is valid.

  `protected boolean`

  `scrollUnderway`

  The `scrollUnderway` flag is used for components like
  `JList`.

  `static final int`

  `SIMPLE_SCROLL_MODE`

  This mode uses the very simple method of redrawing the entire
  contents of the scrollpane each time it is scrolled.

  ### Fields inherited from class javax.swing.[JComponent](JComponent.md "class in javax.swing")

  `listenerList, TOOL_TIP_TEXT_KEY, ui, UNDEFINED_CONDITION, WHEN_ANCESTOR_OF_FOCUSED_COMPONENT, WHEN_FOCUSED, WHEN_IN_FOCUSED_WINDOW`

  ### Fields inherited from class java.awt.[Component](../../java/awt/Component.md "class in java.awt")

  `accessibleContext, BOTTOM_ALIGNMENT, CENTER_ALIGNMENT, LEFT_ALIGNMENT, RIGHT_ALIGNMENT, TOP_ALIGNMENT`

  ### Fields inherited from interface java.awt.image.[ImageObserver](../../java/awt/image/ImageObserver.md "interface in java.awt.image")

  `ABORT, ALLBITS, ERROR, FRAMEBITS, HEIGHT, PROPERTIES, SOMEBITS, WIDTH`
* ## Constructor Summary

  Constructors

  Constructor

  Description

  `JViewport()`

  Creates a `JViewport`.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsConcrete MethodsDeprecated Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `void`

  `addChangeListener(ChangeListener l)`

  Adds a `ChangeListener` to the list that is
  notified each time the view's
  size, position, or the viewport's extent size has changed.

  `protected void`

  `addImpl(Component child,
  Object constraints,
  int index)`

  Sets the `JViewport`'s one lightweight child,
  which can be `null`.

  `protected boolean`

  `computeBlit(int dx,
  int dy,
  Point blitFrom,
  Point blitTo,
  Dimension blitSize,
  Rectangle blitPaint)`

  Computes the parameters for a blit where the backing store image
  currently contains `oldLoc` in the upper left hand corner
  and we're scrolling to `newLoc`.

  `protected LayoutManager`

  `createLayoutManager()`

  Subclassers can override this to install a different
  layout manager (or `null`) in the constructor.

  `protected JViewport.ViewListener`

  `createViewListener()`

  Creates a listener for the view.

  `protected void`

  `firePropertyChange(String propertyName,
  Object oldValue,
  Object newValue)`

  Notifies listeners of a property change.

  `protected void`

  `fireStateChanged()`

  Notifies all `ChangeListeners` when the views
  size, position, or the viewports extent size has changed.

  `AccessibleContext`

  `getAccessibleContext()`

  Gets the AccessibleContext associated with this JViewport.

  `ChangeListener[]`

  `getChangeListeners()`

  Returns an array of all the `ChangeListener`s added
  to this JViewport with addChangeListener().

  `Dimension`

  `getExtentSize()`

  Returns the size of the visible part of the view in view coordinates.

  `final Insets`

  `getInsets()`

  Returns the insets (border) dimensions as (0,0,0,0), since borders
  are not supported on a `JViewport`.

  `final Insets`

  `getInsets(Insets insets)`

  Returns an `Insets` object containing this
  `JViewport`s inset values.

  `int`

  `getScrollMode()`

  Returns the current scrolling mode.

  `ViewportUI`

  `getUI()`

  Returns the L&F object that renders this component.

  `String`

  `getUIClassID()`

  Returns a string that specifies the name of the L&F class
  that renders this component.

  `Component`

  `getView()`

  Returns the `JViewport`'s one child or `null`.

  `Point`

  `getViewPosition()`

  Returns the view coordinates that appear in the upper left
  hand corner of the viewport, or 0,0 if there's no view.

  `Rectangle`

  `getViewRect()`

  Returns a rectangle whose origin is `getViewPosition`
  and size is `getExtentSize`.

  `Dimension`

  `getViewSize()`

  If the view's size hasn't been explicitly set, return the
  preferred size, otherwise return the view's current size.

  `boolean`

  `isBackingStoreEnabled()`

  Deprecated.

  As of Java 2 platform v1.3, replaced by
  `getScrollMode()`.

  `boolean`

  `isOptimizedDrawingEnabled()`

  The `JViewport` overrides the default implementation of
  this method (in `JComponent`) to return false.

  `protected boolean`

  `isPaintingOrigin()`

  Returns true if scroll mode is a `BACKINGSTORE_SCROLL_MODE` to cause
  painting to originate from `JViewport`, or one of its
  ancestors.

  `void`

  `paint(Graphics g)`

  Depending on whether the `backingStore` is enabled,
  either paint the image through the backing store or paint
  just the recently exposed part, using the backing store
  to "blit" the remainder.

  `protected String`

  `paramString()`

  Returns a string representation of this `JViewport`.

  `void`

  `remove(Component child)`

  Removes the `Viewport`s one lightweight child.

  `void`

  `removeChangeListener(ChangeListener l)`

  Removes a `ChangeListener` from the list that's notified each
  time the views size, position, or the viewports extent size
  has changed.

  `void`

  `repaint(long tm,
  int x,
  int y,
  int w,
  int h)`

  Always repaint in the parents coordinate system to make sure
  only one paint is performed by the `RepaintManager`.

  `void`

  `reshape(int x,
  int y,
  int w,
  int h)`

  Sets the bounds of this viewport.

  `void`

  `scrollRectToVisible(Rectangle contentRect)`

  Scrolls the view so that `Rectangle`
  within the view becomes visible.

  `void`

  `setBackingStoreEnabled(boolean enabled)`

  Deprecated.

  As of Java 2 platform v1.3, replaced by
  `setScrollMode()`.

  `final void`

  `setBorder(Border border)`

  The viewport "scrolls" its child (called the "view") by the
  normal parent/child clipping (typically the view is moved in
  the opposite direction of the scroll).

  `void`

  `setExtentSize(Dimension newExtent)`

  Sets the size of the visible part of the view using view coordinates.

  `void`

  `setScrollMode(int mode)`

  Used to control the method of scrolling the viewport contents.

  `void`

  `setUI(ViewportUI ui)`

  Sets the L&F object that renders this component.

  `void`

  `setView(Component view)`

  Sets the `JViewport`'s one lightweight child
  (`view`), which can be `null`.

  `void`

  `setViewPosition(Point p)`

  Sets the view coordinates that appear in the upper left
  hand corner of the viewport, does nothing if there's no view.

  `void`

  `setViewSize(Dimension newSize)`

  Sets the size of the view.

  `Dimension`

  `toViewCoordinates(Dimension size)`

  Converts a size in pixel coordinates to view coordinates.

  `Point`

  `toViewCoordinates(Point p)`

  Converts a point in pixel coordinates to view coordinates.

  `void`

  `updateUI()`

  Resets the UI property to a value from the current look and feel.

  ### Methods inherited from class javax.swing.[JComponent](JComponent.md "class in javax.swing")

  `addAncestorListener, addNotify, addVetoableChangeListener, computeVisibleRect, contains, createToolTip, disable, enable, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, fireVetoableChange, getActionForKeyStroke, getActionMap, getAlignmentX, getAlignmentY, getAncestorListeners, getAutoscrolls, getBaseline, getBaselineResizeBehavior, getBorder, getBounds, getClientProperty, getComponentGraphics, getComponentPopupMenu, getConditionForKeyStroke, getDebugGraphicsOptions, getDefaultLocale, getFontMetrics, getGraphics, getHeight, getInheritsPopupMenu, getInputMap, getInputMap, getInputVerifier, getListeners, getLocation, getMaximumSize, getMinimumSize, getNextFocusableComponent, getPopupLocation, getPreferredSize, getRegisteredKeyStrokes, getRootPane, getSize, getToolTipLocation, getToolTipText, getToolTipText, getTopLevelAncestor, getTransferHandler, getVerifyInputWhenFocusTarget, getVetoableChangeListeners, getVisibleRect, getWidth, getX, getY, grabFocus, hide, isDoubleBuffered, isLightweightComponent, isManagingFocus, isOpaque, isPaintingForPrint, isPaintingTile, isRequestFocusEnabled, isValidateRoot, paintBorder, paintChildren, paintComponent, paintImmediately, paintImmediately, print, printAll, printBorder, printChildren, printComponent, processComponentKeyEvent, processKeyBinding, processKeyEvent, processMouseEvent, processMouseMotionEvent, putClientProperty, registerKeyboardAction, registerKeyboardAction, removeAncestorListener, removeNotify, removeVetoableChangeListener, repaint, requestDefaultFocus, requestFocus, requestFocus, requestFocusInWindow, requestFocusInWindow, resetKeyboardActions, revalidate, setActionMap, setAlignmentX, setAlignmentY, setAutoscrolls, setBackground, setComponentPopupMenu, setDebugGraphicsOptions, setDefaultLocale, setDoubleBuffered, setEnabled, setFocusTraversalKeys, setFont, setForeground, setInheritsPopupMenu, setInputMap, setInputVerifier, setMaximumSize, setMinimumSize, setNextFocusableComponent, setOpaque, setPreferredSize, setRequestFocusEnabled, setToolTipText, setTransferHandler, setUI, setVerifyInputWhenFocusTarget, setVisible, unregisterKeyboardAction, update`

  ### Methods inherited from class java.awt.[Container](../../java/awt/Container.md "class in java.awt")

  `add, add, add, add, add, addContainerListener, addPropertyChangeListener, addPropertyChangeListener, applyComponentOrientation, areFocusTraversalKeysSet, countComponents, deliverEvent, doLayout, findComponentAt, findComponentAt, getComponent, getComponentAt, getComponentAt, getComponentCount, getComponents, getComponentZOrder, getContainerListeners, getFocusTraversalKeys, getFocusTraversalPolicy, getLayout, getMousePosition, insets, invalidate, isAncestorOf, isFocusCycleRoot, isFocusCycleRoot, isFocusTraversalPolicyProvider, isFocusTraversalPolicySet, layout, list, list, locate, minimumSize, paintComponents, preferredSize, printComponents, processContainerEvent, processEvent, remove, removeAll, removeContainerListener, setComponentZOrder, setFocusCycleRoot, setFocusTraversalPolicy, setFocusTraversalPolicyProvider, setLayout, transferFocusDownCycle, validate, validateTree`

  ### Methods inherited from class java.awt.[Component](../../java/awt/Component.md "class in java.awt")

  `action, add, addComponentListener, addFocusListener, addHierarchyBoundsListener, addHierarchyListener, addInputMethodListener, addKeyListener, addMouseListener, addMouseMotionListener, addMouseWheelListener, bounds, checkImage, checkImage, coalesceEvents, contains, createImage, createImage, createVolatileImage, createVolatileImage, disableEvents, dispatchEvent, enable, enableEvents, enableInputMethods, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, firePropertyChange, getBackground, getBounds, getColorModel, getComponentListeners, getComponentOrientation, getCursor, getDropTarget, getFocusCycleRootAncestor, getFocusListeners, getFocusTraversalKeysEnabled, getFont, getForeground, getGraphicsConfiguration, getHierarchyBoundsListeners, getHierarchyListeners, getIgnoreRepaint, getInputContext, getInputMethodListeners, getInputMethodRequests, getKeyListeners, getLocale, getLocation, getLocationOnScreen, getMouseListeners, getMouseMotionListeners, getMousePosition, getMouseWheelListeners, getName, getParent, getPropertyChangeListeners, getPropertyChangeListeners, getSize, getToolkit, getTreeLock, gotFocus, handleEvent, hasFocus, imageUpdate, inside, isBackgroundSet, isCursorSet, isDisplayable, isEnabled, isFocusable, isFocusOwner, isFocusTraversable, isFontSet, isForegroundSet, isLightweight, isMaximumSizeSet, isMinimumSizeSet, isPreferredSizeSet, isShowing, isValid, isVisible, keyDown, keyUp, list, list, list, location, lostFocus, mouseDown, mouseDrag, mouseEnter, mouseExit, mouseMove, mouseUp, move, nextFocus, paintAll, postEvent, prepareImage, prepareImage, processComponentEvent, processFocusEvent, processHierarchyBoundsEvent, processHierarchyEvent, processInputMethodEvent, processMouseWheelEvent, remove, removeComponentListener, removeFocusListener, removeHierarchyBoundsListener, removeHierarchyListener, removeInputMethodListener, removeKeyListener, removeMouseListener, removeMouseMotionListener, removeMouseWheelListener, removePropertyChangeListener, removePropertyChangeListener, repaint, repaint, repaint, requestFocus, requestFocus, requestFocusInWindow, resize, resize, setBounds, setBounds, setComponentOrientation, setCursor, setDropTarget, setFocusable, setFocusTraversalKeysEnabled, setIgnoreRepaint, setLocale, setLocation, setLocation, setMixingCutoutShape, setName, setSize, setSize, show, show, size, toString, transferFocus, transferFocusBackward, transferFocusUpCycle`

  ### Methods inherited from class java.lang.[Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `clone, equals, finalize, getClass, hashCode, notify, notifyAll, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Field Details

  + ### isViewSizeSet

    protected boolean isViewSizeSet

    True when the viewport dimensions have been determined.
    The default is false.
  + ### lastPaintPosition

    protected [Point](../../java/awt/Point.md "class in java.awt") lastPaintPosition

    The last `viewPosition` that we've painted, so we know how
    much of the backing store image is valid.
  + ### backingStore

    [@Deprecated](../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md "annotation interface in java.lang")
    protected boolean backingStore

    Deprecated.

    As of Java 2 platform v1.3

    True when this viewport is maintaining an offscreen image of its
    contents, so that some scrolling can take place using fast "bit-blit"
    operations instead of by accessing the view object to construct the
    display. The default is `false`.

    See Also:
    :   - [`setScrollMode(int)`](#setScrollMode(int))
  + ### backingStoreImage

    protected transient [Image](../../java/awt/Image.md "class in java.awt") backingStoreImage

    The view image used for a backing store.
  + ### scrollUnderway

    protected boolean scrollUnderway

    The `scrollUnderway` flag is used for components like
    `JList`. When the downarrow key is pressed on a
    `JList` and the selected
    cell is the last in the list, the `scrollpane` autoscrolls.
    Here, the old selected cell needs repainting and so we need
    a flag to make the viewport do the optimized painting
    only when there is an explicit call to
    `setViewPosition(Point)`.
    When `setBounds` is called through other routes,
    the flag is off and the view repaints normally. Another approach
    would be to remove this from the `JViewport`
    class and have the `JList` manage this case by using
    `setBackingStoreEnabled`. The default is
    `false`.
  + ### BLIT\_SCROLL\_MODE

    public static final int BLIT\_SCROLL\_MODE

    Use `graphics.copyArea` to implement scrolling.
    This is the fastest for most applications.

    Since:
    :   1.3

    See Also:
    :   - [`setScrollMode(int)`](#setScrollMode(int))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.swing.JViewport.BLIT_SCROLL_MODE)
  + ### BACKINGSTORE\_SCROLL\_MODE

    public static final int BACKINGSTORE\_SCROLL\_MODE

    Draws viewport contents into an offscreen image.
    This was previously the default mode for `JTable`.
    This mode may offer advantages over "blit mode"
    in some cases, but it requires a large chunk of extra RAM.

    Since:
    :   1.3

    See Also:
    :   - [`setScrollMode(int)`](#setScrollMode(int))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.swing.JViewport.BACKINGSTORE_SCROLL_MODE)
  + ### SIMPLE\_SCROLL\_MODE

    public static final int SIMPLE\_SCROLL\_MODE

    This mode uses the very simple method of redrawing the entire
    contents of the scrollpane each time it is scrolled.
    This was the default behavior in Swing 1.0 and Swing 1.1.
    Either of the other two options will provide better performance
    in most cases.

    Since:
    :   1.3

    See Also:
    :   - [`setScrollMode(int)`](#setScrollMode(int))
        - [Constant Field Values](../../../constant-values.md#javax.swing.JViewport.SIMPLE_SCROLL_MODE)
* ## Constructor Details

  + ### JViewport

    public JViewport()

    Creates a `JViewport`.
* ## Method Details

  + ### getUI

    public [ViewportUI](plaf/ViewportUI.md "class in javax.swing.plaf") getUI()

    Returns the L&F object that renders this component.

    Overrides:
    :   `getUI` in class `JComponent`

    Returns:
    :   a `ViewportUI` object

    Since:
    :   1.3
  + ### setUI

    [@BeanProperty](../../java/beans/BeanProperty.md "annotation interface in java.beans")([hidden](../../java/beans/BeanProperty.md#hidden())=true,
    [visualUpdate](../../java/beans/BeanProperty.md#visualUpdate())=true,
    [description](../../java/beans/BeanProperty.md#description())="The UI object that implements the Component\'s LookAndFeel.")
    public void setUI([ViewportUI](plaf/ViewportUI.md "class in javax.swing.plaf") ui)

    Sets the L&F object that renders this component.

    Parameters:
    :   `ui` - the `ViewportUI` L&F object

    Since:
    :   1.3

    See Also:
    :   - [`UIDefaults.getUI(javax.swing.JComponent)`](UIDefaults.md#getUI(javax.swing.JComponent))
  + ### updateUI

    public void updateUI()

    Resets the UI property to a value from the current look and feel.

    Overrides:
    :   `updateUI` in class `JComponent`

    See Also:
    :   - [`JComponent.updateUI()`](JComponent.md#updateUI())
  + ### getUIClassID

    public [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") getUIClassID()

    Returns a string that specifies the name of the L&F class
    that renders this component.

    Overrides:
    :   `getUIClassID` in class `JComponent`

    Returns:
    :   the string "ViewportUI"

    See Also:
    :   - [`JComponent.getUIClassID()`](JComponent.md#getUIClassID())
        - [`UIDefaults.getUI(javax.swing.JComponent)`](UIDefaults.md#getUI(javax.swing.JComponent))
  + ### addImpl

    protected void addImpl([Component](../../java/awt/Component.md "class in java.awt") child,
    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") constraints,
    int index)

    Sets the `JViewport`'s one lightweight child,
    which can be `null`.
    (Since there is only one child which occupies the entire viewport,
    the `constraints` and `index`
    arguments are ignored.)

    Overrides:
    :   `addImpl` in class `Container`

    Parameters:
    :   `child` - the lightweight `child` of the viewport
    :   `constraints` - the `constraints` to be respected
    :   `index` - the index

    See Also:
    :   - [`setView(java.awt.Component)`](#setView(java.awt.Component))
  + ### remove

    public void remove([Component](../../java/awt/Component.md "class in java.awt") child)

    Removes the `Viewport`s one lightweight child.

    Overrides:
    :   `remove` in class `Container`

    Parameters:
    :   `child` - the component to be removed

    See Also:
    :   - [`setView(java.awt.Component)`](#setView(java.awt.Component))
  + ### scrollRectToVisible

    public void scrollRectToVisible([Rectangle](../../java/awt/Rectangle.md "class in java.awt") contentRect)

    Scrolls the view so that `Rectangle`
    within the view becomes visible.

    This attempts to validate the view before scrolling if the
    view is currently not valid - `isValid` returns false.
    To avoid excessive validation when the containment hierarchy is
    being created this will not validate if one of the ancestors does not
    have a peer, or there is no validate root ancestor, or one of the
    ancestors is not a `Window` or `Applet`.

    Note that this method will not scroll outside of the
    valid viewport; for example, if `contentRect` is larger
    than the viewport, scrolling will be confined to the viewport's
    bounds.

    Overrides:
    :   `scrollRectToVisible` in class `JComponent`

    Parameters:
    :   `contentRect` - the `Rectangle` to display

    See Also:
    :   - [`JComponent.isValidateRoot()`](JComponent.md#isValidateRoot())
        - [`Component.isValid()`](../../java/awt/Component.md#isValid())
  + ### setBorder

    public final void setBorder([Border](border/Border.md "interface in javax.swing.border") border)

    The viewport "scrolls" its child (called the "view") by the
    normal parent/child clipping (typically the view is moved in
    the opposite direction of the scroll). A non-`null` border,
    or non-zero insets, isn't supported, to prevent the geometry
    of this component from becoming complex enough to inhibit
    subclassing. To create a `JViewport` with a border,
    add it to a `JPanel` that has a border.

    Note: If `border` is non-`null`, this
    method will throw an exception as borders are not supported on
    a `JViewPort`.

    Overrides:
    :   `setBorder` in class `JComponent`

    Parameters:
    :   `border` - the `Border` to set

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - this method is not implemented

    See Also:
    :   - [`Border`](border/Border.md "interface in javax.swing.border")
        - [`CompoundBorder`](border/CompoundBorder.md "class in javax.swing.border")
  + ### getInsets

    public final [Insets](../../java/awt/Insets.md "class in java.awt") getInsets()

    Returns the insets (border) dimensions as (0,0,0,0), since borders
    are not supported on a `JViewport`.

    Overrides:
    :   `getInsets` in class `JComponent`

    Returns:
    :   a `Rectangle` of zero dimension and zero origin

    See Also:
    :   - [`setBorder(javax.swing.border.Border)`](#setBorder(javax.swing.border.Border))
  + ### getInsets

    [@BeanProperty](../../java/beans/BeanProperty.md "annotation interface in java.beans")([expert](../../java/beans/BeanProperty.md#expert())=true)
    public final [Insets](../../java/awt/Insets.md "class in java.awt") getInsets([Insets](../../java/awt/Insets.md "class in java.awt") insets)

    Returns an `Insets` object containing this
    `JViewport`s inset values. The passed-in
    `Insets` object will be reinitialized, and
    all existing values within this object are overwritten.

    Overrides:
    :   `getInsets` in class `JComponent`

    Parameters:
    :   `insets` - the `Insets` object which can be reused

    Returns:
    :   this viewports inset values

    See Also:
    :   - [`getInsets()`](#getInsets())
  + ### isOptimizedDrawingEnabled

    public boolean isOptimizedDrawingEnabled()

    The `JViewport` overrides the default implementation of
    this method (in `JComponent`) to return false.
    This ensures
    that the drawing machinery will call the `Viewport`'s
    `paint`
    implementation rather than messaging the `JViewport`'s
    children directly.

    Overrides:
    :   `isOptimizedDrawingEnabled` in class `JComponent`

    Returns:
    :   false
  + ### isPaintingOrigin

    protected boolean isPaintingOrigin()

    Returns true if scroll mode is a `BACKINGSTORE_SCROLL_MODE` to cause
    painting to originate from `JViewport`, or one of its
    ancestors. Otherwise returns `false`.

    Overrides:
    :   `isPaintingOrigin` in class `JComponent`

    Returns:
    :   true if scroll mode is a `BACKINGSTORE_SCROLL_MODE`.

    See Also:
    :   - [`JComponent.isPaintingOrigin()`](JComponent.md#isPaintingOrigin())
  + ### paint

    public void paint([Graphics](../../java/awt/Graphics.md "class in java.awt") g)

    Depending on whether the `backingStore` is enabled,
    either paint the image through the backing store or paint
    just the recently exposed part, using the backing store
    to "blit" the remainder.
    > The term "blit" is the pronounced version of the PDP-10
    > BLT (BLock Transfer) instruction, which copied a block of
    > bits. (In case you were curious.)

    Overrides:
    :   `paint` in class `JComponent`

    Parameters:
    :   `g` - the `Graphics` context within which to paint

    See Also:
    :   - [`JComponent.paintComponent(java.awt.Graphics)`](JComponent.md#paintComponent(java.awt.Graphics))
        - [`JComponent.paintBorder(java.awt.Graphics)`](JComponent.md#paintBorder(java.awt.Graphics))
        - [`JComponent.paintChildren(java.awt.Graphics)`](JComponent.md#paintChildren(java.awt.Graphics))
        - [`JComponent.getComponentGraphics(java.awt.Graphics)`](JComponent.md#getComponentGraphics(java.awt.Graphics))
        - [`JComponent.repaint(long, int, int, int, int)`](JComponent.md#repaint(long,int,int,int,int))
  + ### reshape

    public void reshape(int x,
    int y,
    int w,
    int h)

    Sets the bounds of this viewport. If the viewport's width
    or height has changed, fire a `StateChanged` event.

    Overrides:
    :   `reshape` in class `JComponent`

    Parameters:
    :   `x` - left edge of the origin
    :   `y` - top edge of the origin
    :   `w` - width in pixels
    :   `h` - height in pixels

    See Also:
    :   - [`JComponent.reshape(int, int, int, int)`](JComponent.md#reshape(int,int,int,int))
  + ### setScrollMode

    [@BeanProperty](../../java/beans/BeanProperty.md "annotation interface in java.beans")([bound](../../java/beans/BeanProperty.md#bound())=false,
    [enumerationValues](../../java/beans/BeanProperty.md#enumerationValues())={"JViewport.BLIT\_SCROLL\_MODE","JViewport.BACKINGSTORE\_SCROLL\_MODE","JViewport.SIMPLE\_SCROLL\_MODE"},
    [description](../../java/beans/BeanProperty.md#description())="Method of moving contents for incremental scrolls.")
    public void setScrollMode(int mode)

    Used to control the method of scrolling the viewport contents.
    You may want to change this mode to get maximum performance for your
    use case.

    Parameters:
    :   `mode` - one of the following values:
        - JViewport.BLIT\_SCROLL\_MODE- JViewport.BACKINGSTORE\_SCROLL\_MODE- JViewport.SIMPLE\_SCROLL\_MODE

    Since:
    :   1.3

    See Also:
    :   - [`BLIT_SCROLL_MODE`](#BLIT_SCROLL_MODE)
        - [`BACKINGSTORE_SCROLL_MODE`](#BACKINGSTORE_SCROLL_MODE)
        - [`SIMPLE_SCROLL_MODE`](#SIMPLE_SCROLL_MODE)
  + ### getScrollMode

    public int getScrollMode()

    Returns the current scrolling mode.

    Returns:
    :   the `scrollMode` property

    Since:
    :   1.3

    See Also:
    :   - [`setScrollMode(int)`](#setScrollMode(int))
  + ### isBackingStoreEnabled

    [@Deprecated](../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md "annotation interface in java.lang")
    public boolean isBackingStoreEnabled()

    Deprecated.

    As of Java 2 platform v1.3, replaced by
    `getScrollMode()`.

    Returns `true` if this viewport is maintaining
    an offscreen image of its contents.

    Returns:
    :   `true` if `scrollMode` is
        `BACKINGSTORE_SCROLL_MODE`
  + ### setBackingStoreEnabled

    [@Deprecated](../../../java.base/java/lang/Deprecated.md "annotation interface in java.lang")
    public void setBackingStoreEnabled(boolean enabled)

    Deprecated.

    As of Java 2 platform v1.3, replaced by
    `setScrollMode()`.

    If true if this viewport will maintain an offscreen
    image of its contents. The image is used to reduce the cost
    of small one dimensional changes to the `viewPosition`.
    Rather than repainting the entire viewport we use
    `Graphics.copyArea` to effect some of the scroll.

    Parameters:
    :   `enabled` - if true, maintain an offscreen backing store
  + ### getView

    public [Component](../../java/awt/Component.md "class in java.awt") getView()

    Returns the `JViewport`'s one child or `null`.

    Returns:
    :   the viewports child, or `null` if none exists

    See Also:
    :   - [`setView(java.awt.Component)`](#setView(java.awt.Component))
  + ### setView

    public void setView([Component](../../java/awt/Component.md "class in java.awt") view)

    Sets the `JViewport`'s one lightweight child
    (`view`), which can be `null`.

    Parameters:
    :   `view` - the viewport's new lightweight child

    See Also:
    :   - [`getView()`](#getView())
  + ### getViewSize

    public [Dimension](../../java/awt/Dimension.md "class in java.awt") getViewSize()

    If the view's size hasn't been explicitly set, return the
    preferred size, otherwise return the view's current size.
    If there is no view, return 0,0.

    Returns:
    :   a `Dimension` object specifying the size of the view
  + ### setViewSize

    public void setViewSize([Dimension](../../java/awt/Dimension.md "class in java.awt") newSize)

    Sets the size of the view. A state changed event will be fired.

    Parameters:
    :   `newSize` - a `Dimension` object specifying the new
        size of the view
  + ### getViewPosition

    public [Point](../../java/awt/Point.md "class in java.awt") getViewPosition()

    Returns the view coordinates that appear in the upper left
    hand corner of the viewport, or 0,0 if there's no view.

    Returns:
    :   a `Point` object giving the upper left coordinates
  + ### setViewPosition

    public void setViewPosition([Point](../../java/awt/Point.md "class in java.awt") p)

    Sets the view coordinates that appear in the upper left
    hand corner of the viewport, does nothing if there's no view.

    Parameters:
    :   `p` - a `Point` object giving the upper left coordinates
  + ### getViewRect

    public [Rectangle](../../java/awt/Rectangle.md "class in java.awt") getViewRect()

    Returns a rectangle whose origin is `getViewPosition`
    and size is `getExtentSize`.
    This is the visible part of the view, in view coordinates.

    Returns:
    :   a `Rectangle` giving the visible part of
        the view using view coordinates.
  + ### computeBlit

    protected boolean computeBlit(int dx,
    int dy,
    [Point](../../java/awt/Point.md "class in java.awt") blitFrom,
    [Point](../../java/awt/Point.md "class in java.awt") blitTo,
    [Dimension](../../java/awt/Dimension.md "class in java.awt") blitSize,
    [Rectangle](../../java/awt/Rectangle.md "class in java.awt") blitPaint)

    Computes the parameters for a blit where the backing store image
    currently contains `oldLoc` in the upper left hand corner
    and we're scrolling to `newLoc`.
    The parameters are modified
    to return the values required for the blit.

    Parameters:
    :   `dx` - the horizontal delta
    :   `dy` - the vertical delta
    :   `blitFrom` - the `Point` we're blitting from
    :   `blitTo` - the `Point` we're blitting to
    :   `blitSize` - the `Dimension` of the area to blit
    :   `blitPaint` - the area to blit

    Returns:
    :   true if the parameters are modified and we're ready to blit;
        false otherwise
  + ### getExtentSize

    public [Dimension](../../java/awt/Dimension.md "class in java.awt") getExtentSize()

    Returns the size of the visible part of the view in view coordinates.

    Returns:
    :   a `Dimension` object giving the size of the view
  + ### toViewCoordinates

    public [Dimension](../../java/awt/Dimension.md "class in java.awt") toViewCoordinates([Dimension](../../java/awt/Dimension.md "class in java.awt") size)

    Converts a size in pixel coordinates to view coordinates.
    Subclasses of viewport that support "logical coordinates"
    will override this method.

    Parameters:
    :   `size` - a `Dimension` object using pixel coordinates

    Returns:
    :   a `Dimension` object converted to view coordinates
  + ### toViewCoordinates

    public [Point](../../java/awt/Point.md "class in java.awt") toViewCoordinates([Point](../../java/awt/Point.md "class in java.awt") p)

    Converts a point in pixel coordinates to view coordinates.
    Subclasses of viewport that support "logical coordinates"
    will override this method.

    Parameters:
    :   `p` - a `Point` object using pixel coordinates

    Returns:
    :   a `Point` object converted to view coordinates
  + ### setExtentSize

    public void setExtentSize([Dimension](../../java/awt/Dimension.md "class in java.awt") newExtent)

    Sets the size of the visible part of the view using view coordinates.

    Parameters:
    :   `newExtent` - a `Dimension` object specifying
        the size of the view
  + ### createViewListener

    protected [JViewport.ViewListener](JViewport.ViewListener.md "class in javax.swing") createViewListener()

    Creates a listener for the view.

    Returns:
    :   a `ViewListener`
  + ### createLayoutManager

    protected [LayoutManager](../../java/awt/LayoutManager.md "interface in java.awt") createLayoutManager()

    Subclassers can override this to install a different
    layout manager (or `null`) in the constructor. Returns
    the `LayoutManager` to install on the `JViewport`.

    Returns:
    :   a `LayoutManager`
  + ### addChangeListener

    public void addChangeListener([ChangeListener](event/ChangeListener.md "interface in javax.swing.event") l)

    Adds a `ChangeListener` to the list that is
    notified each time the view's
    size, position, or the viewport's extent size has changed.

    Parameters:
    :   `l` - the `ChangeListener` to add

    See Also:
    :   - [`removeChangeListener(javax.swing.event.ChangeListener)`](#removeChangeListener(javax.swing.event.ChangeListener))
        - [`setViewPosition(java.awt.Point)`](#setViewPosition(java.awt.Point))
        - [`setViewSize(java.awt.Dimension)`](#setViewSize(java.awt.Dimension))
        - [`setExtentSize(java.awt.Dimension)`](#setExtentSize(java.awt.Dimension))
  + ### removeChangeListener

    public void removeChangeListener([ChangeListener](event/ChangeListener.md "interface in javax.swing.event") l)

    Removes a `ChangeListener` from the list that's notified each
    time the views size, position, or the viewports extent size
    has changed.

    Parameters:
    :   `l` - the `ChangeListener` to remove

    See Also:
    :   - [`addChangeListener(javax.swing.event.ChangeListener)`](#addChangeListener(javax.swing.event.ChangeListener))
  + ### getChangeListeners

    public [ChangeListener](event/ChangeListener.md "interface in javax.swing.event")[] getChangeListeners()

    Returns an array of all the `ChangeListener`s added
    to this JViewport with addChangeListener().

    Returns:
    :   all of the `ChangeListener`s added or an empty
        array if no listeners have been added

    Since:
    :   1.4
  + ### fireStateChanged

    protected void fireStateChanged()

    Notifies all `ChangeListeners` when the views
    size, position, or the viewports extent size has changed.

    See Also:
    :   - [`addChangeListener(javax.swing.event.ChangeListener)`](#addChangeListener(javax.swing.event.ChangeListener))
        - [`removeChangeListener(javax.swing.event.ChangeListener)`](#removeChangeListener(javax.swing.event.ChangeListener))
        - [`EventListenerList`](event/EventListenerList.md "class in javax.swing.event")
  + ### repaint

    public void repaint(long tm,
    int x,
    int y,
    int w,
    int h)

    Always repaint in the parents coordinate system to make sure
    only one paint is performed by the `RepaintManager`.

    Overrides:
    :   `repaint` in class `JComponent`

    Parameters:
    :   `tm` - maximum time in milliseconds before update
    :   `x` - the `x` coordinate (pixels over from left)
    :   `y` - the `y` coordinate (pixels down from top)
    :   `w` - the width
    :   `h` - the height

    See Also:
    :   - [`Component.update(java.awt.Graphics)`](../../java/awt/Component.md#update(java.awt.Graphics))
  + ### paramString

    protected [String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") paramString()

    Returns a string representation of this `JViewport`.
    This method
    is intended to be used only for debugging purposes, and the
    content and format of the returned string may vary between
    implementations. The returned string may be empty but may not
    be `null`.

    Overrides:
    :   `paramString` in class `JComponent`

    Returns:
    :   a string representation of this `JViewport`
  + ### firePropertyChange

    protected void firePropertyChange([String](../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") propertyName,
    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") oldValue,
    [Object](../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") newValue)

    Notifies listeners of a property change. This is subclassed to update
    the `windowBlit` property.
    (The `putClientProperty` property is final).

    Overrides:
    :   `firePropertyChange` in class `Component`

    Parameters:
    :   `propertyName` - a string containing the property name
    :   `oldValue` - the old value of the property
    :   `newValue` - the new value of the property
  + ### getAccessibleContext

    public [AccessibleContext](../accessibility/AccessibleContext.md "class in javax.accessibility") getAccessibleContext()

    Gets the AccessibleContext associated with this JViewport.
    For viewports, the AccessibleContext takes the form of an
    AccessibleJViewport.
    A new AccessibleJViewport instance is created if necessary.

    Specified by:
    :   `getAccessibleContext` in interface `Accessible`

    Overrides:
    :   `getAccessibleContext` in class `Component`

    Returns:
    :   an AccessibleJViewport that serves as the
        AccessibleContext of this JViewport