Moduleô [java.desktop](../../../module-summary.md)

Packageô [java.awt.event](package-summary.md)

# Class ComponentEvent

[java.lang.Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

[java.util.EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

[java.awt.AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

java.awt.event.ComponentEvent

All Implemented Interfaces:
:   `Serializable`

Direct Known Subclasses:
:   `ContainerEvent`, `FocusEvent`, `InputEvent`, `PaintEvent`, `WindowEvent`

---

public class ComponentEvent
extends [AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

A low-level event which indicates that a component moved, changed
size, or changed visibility (also, the root class for the other
component-level events).

Component events are provided for notification purposes ONLY;
The AWT will automatically handle component moves and resizes
internally so that GUI layout works properly regardless of
whether a program is receiving these events or not.

In addition to serving as the base class for other component-related
events (InputEvent, FocusEvent, WindowEvent, ContainerEvent),
this class defines the events that indicate changes in
a component's size, position, or visibility.

This low-level event is generated by a component object (such as a
List) when the component is moved, resized, rendered invisible, or made
visible again. The event is passed to every `ComponentListener`
or `ComponentAdapter` object which registered to receive such
events using the component's `addComponentListener` method.
(`ComponentAdapter` objects implement the
`ComponentListener` interface.) Each such listener object
gets this `ComponentEvent` when the event occurs.

An unspecified behavior will be caused if the `id` parameter
of any particular `ComponentEvent` instance is not
in the range from `COMPONENT_FIRST` to `COMPONENT_LAST`.

Since:
:   1.1

See Also:
:   * [`ComponentAdapter`](ComponentAdapter.md "class in java.awt.event")
    * [`ComponentListener`](ComponentListener.md "interface in java.awt.event")
    * [Tutorial: Writing a Component Listener](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/uiswing/events/componentlistener.html)
    * [Serialized Form](../../../../serialized-form.md#java.awt.event.ComponentEvent)

* ## Field Summary

  Fields

  Modifier and Type

  Field

  Description

  `static final int`

  `COMPONENT_FIRST`

  The first number in the range of ids used for component events.

  `static final int`

  `COMPONENT_HIDDEN`

  This event indicates that the component was rendered invisible.

  `static final int`

  `COMPONENT_LAST`

  The last number in the range of ids used for component events.

  `static final int`

  `COMPONENT_MOVED`

  This event indicates that the component's position changed.

  `static final int`

  `COMPONENT_RESIZED`

  This event indicates that the component's size changed.

  `static final int`

  `COMPONENT_SHOWN`

  This event indicates that the component was made visible.

  ### Fields inherited from classô java.awt.[AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

  `ACTION_EVENT_MASK, ADJUSTMENT_EVENT_MASK, COMPONENT_EVENT_MASK, consumed, CONTAINER_EVENT_MASK, FOCUS_EVENT_MASK, HIERARCHY_BOUNDS_EVENT_MASK, HIERARCHY_EVENT_MASK, id, INPUT_METHOD_EVENT_MASK, INVOCATION_EVENT_MASK, ITEM_EVENT_MASK, KEY_EVENT_MASK, MOUSE_EVENT_MASK, MOUSE_MOTION_EVENT_MASK, MOUSE_WHEEL_EVENT_MASK, PAINT_EVENT_MASK, RESERVED_ID_MAX, TEXT_EVENT_MASK, WINDOW_EVENT_MASK, WINDOW_FOCUS_EVENT_MASK, WINDOW_STATE_EVENT_MASK`

  ### Fields inherited from classô java.util.[EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

  `source`
* ## Constructor Summary

  Constructors

  Constructor

  Description

  `ComponentEvent(Componentô source,
  intô id)`

  Constructs a `ComponentEvent` object.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsConcrete Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `Component`

  `getComponent()`

  Returns the originator of the event.

  `String`

  `paramString()`

  Returns a parameter string identifying this event.

  ### Methods inherited from classô java.awt.[AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

  `consume, getID, isConsumed, setSource, toString`

  ### Methods inherited from classô java.util.[EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

  `getSource`

  ### Methods inherited from classô java.lang.[Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `clone, equals, finalize, getClass, hashCode, notify, notifyAll, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Field Details

  + ### COMPONENT\_FIRST

    public static finalô intô COMPONENT\_FIRST

    The first number in the range of ids used for component events.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ComponentEvent.COMPONENT_FIRST)
  + ### COMPONENT\_LAST

    public static finalô intô COMPONENT\_LAST

    The last number in the range of ids used for component events.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ComponentEvent.COMPONENT_LAST)
  + ### COMPONENT\_MOVED

    [@Native](../../../../java.base/java/lang/annotation/Native.md "annotation interface in java.lang.annotation")
    public static finalô intô COMPONENT\_MOVED

    This event indicates that the component's position changed.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ComponentEvent.COMPONENT_MOVED)
  + ### COMPONENT\_RESIZED

    [@Native](../../../../java.base/java/lang/annotation/Native.md "annotation interface in java.lang.annotation")
    public static finalô intô COMPONENT\_RESIZED

    This event indicates that the component's size changed.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ComponentEvent.COMPONENT_RESIZED)
  + ### COMPONENT\_SHOWN

    [@Native](../../../../java.base/java/lang/annotation/Native.md "annotation interface in java.lang.annotation")
    public static finalô intô COMPONENT\_SHOWN

    This event indicates that the component was made visible.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ComponentEvent.COMPONENT_SHOWN)
  + ### COMPONENT\_HIDDEN

    [@Native](../../../../java.base/java/lang/annotation/Native.md "annotation interface in java.lang.annotation")
    public static finalô intô COMPONENT\_HIDDEN

    This event indicates that the component was rendered invisible.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ComponentEvent.COMPONENT_HIDDEN)
* ## Constructor Details

  + ### ComponentEvent

    publicô ComponentEvent([Component](../Component.md "class in java.awt")ô source,
    intô id)

    Constructs a `ComponentEvent` object.

    This method throws an
    `IllegalArgumentException` if `source`
    is `null`.

    Parameters:
    :   `source` - The `Component` that originated the event
    :   `id` - An integer indicating the type of event.
        For information on allowable values, see
        the class description for [`ComponentEvent`](ComponentEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `source` is null

    See Also:
    :   - [`getComponent()`](#getComponent())
        - [`AWTEvent.getID()`](../AWTEvent.md#getID())
* ## Method Details

  + ### getComponent

    publicô [Component](../Component.md "class in java.awt")ô getComponent()

    Returns the originator of the event.

    Returns:
    :   the `Component` object that originated
        the event, or `null` if the object is not a
        `Component`.
  + ### paramString

    publicô [String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang")ô paramString()

    Returns a parameter string identifying this event.
    This method is useful for event-logging and for debugging.

    Overrides:
    :   `paramString`ô in classô `AWTEvent`

    Returns:
    :   a string identifying the event and its attributes