Module [java.desktop](../../../module-summary.md)

Package [java.awt.event](package-summary.md)

# Class ContainerEvent

[java.lang.Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

[java.util.EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

[java.awt.AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

[java.awt.event.ComponentEvent](ComponentEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

java.awt.event.ContainerEvent

All Implemented Interfaces:
:   `Serializable`

---

public class ContainerEvent
extends [ComponentEvent](ComponentEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

A low-level event which indicates that a container's contents
changed because a component was added or removed.

Container events are provided for notification purposes ONLY;
The AWT will automatically handle changes to the containers
contents internally so that the program works properly regardless of
whether the program is receiving these events or not.

This low-level event is generated by a container object (such as a
Panel) when a component is added to it or removed from it.
The event is passed to every `ContainerListener`
or `ContainerAdapter` object which registered to receive such
events using the component's `addContainerListener` method.
(`ContainerAdapter` objects implement the
`ContainerListener` interface.) Each such listener object
gets this `ContainerEvent` when the event occurs.

An unspecified behavior will be caused if the `id` parameter
of any particular `ContainerEvent` instance is not
in the range from `CONTAINER_FIRST` to `CONTAINER_LAST`.

Since:
:   1.1

See Also:
:   * [`ContainerAdapter`](ContainerAdapter.md "class in java.awt.event")
    * [`ContainerListener`](ContainerListener.md "interface in java.awt.event")
    * [Tutorial: Writing a Container Listener](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/uiswing/events/containerlistener.html)
    * [Serialized Form](../../../../serialized-form.md#java.awt.event.ContainerEvent)

* ## Field Summary

  Fields

  Modifier and Type

  Field

  Description

  `static final int`

  `COMPONENT_ADDED`

  This event indicates that a component was added to the container.

  `static final int`

  `COMPONENT_REMOVED`

  This event indicates that a component was removed from the container.

  `static final int`

  `CONTAINER_FIRST`

  The first number in the range of ids used for container events.

  `static final int`

  `CONTAINER_LAST`

  The last number in the range of ids used for container events.

  ### Fields inherited from class java.awt.event.[ComponentEvent](ComponentEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

  `COMPONENT_FIRST, COMPONENT_HIDDEN, COMPONENT_LAST, COMPONENT_MOVED, COMPONENT_RESIZED, COMPONENT_SHOWN`

  ### Fields inherited from class java.awt.[AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

  `ACTION_EVENT_MASK, ADJUSTMENT_EVENT_MASK, COMPONENT_EVENT_MASK, consumed, CONTAINER_EVENT_MASK, FOCUS_EVENT_MASK, HIERARCHY_BOUNDS_EVENT_MASK, HIERARCHY_EVENT_MASK, id, INPUT_METHOD_EVENT_MASK, INVOCATION_EVENT_MASK, ITEM_EVENT_MASK, KEY_EVENT_MASK, MOUSE_EVENT_MASK, MOUSE_MOTION_EVENT_MASK, MOUSE_WHEEL_EVENT_MASK, PAINT_EVENT_MASK, RESERVED_ID_MAX, TEXT_EVENT_MASK, WINDOW_EVENT_MASK, WINDOW_FOCUS_EVENT_MASK, WINDOW_STATE_EVENT_MASK`

  ### Fields inherited from class java.util.[EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

  `source`
* ## Constructor Summary

  Constructors

  Constructor

  Description

  `ContainerEvent(Component source,
  int id,
  Component child)`

  Constructs a `ContainerEvent` object.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsConcrete Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `Component`

  `getChild()`

  Returns the component that was affected by the event.

  `Container`

  `getContainer()`

  Returns the originator of the event.

  `String`

  `paramString()`

  Returns a parameter string identifying this event.

  ### Methods inherited from class java.awt.event.[ComponentEvent](ComponentEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

  `getComponent`

  ### Methods inherited from class java.awt.[AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

  `consume, getID, isConsumed, setSource, toString`

  ### Methods inherited from class java.util.[EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

  `getSource`

  ### Methods inherited from class java.lang.[Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `clone, equals, finalize, getClass, hashCode, notify, notifyAll, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Field Details

  + ### CONTAINER\_FIRST

    public static final int CONTAINER\_FIRST

    The first number in the range of ids used for container events.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ContainerEvent.CONTAINER_FIRST)
  + ### CONTAINER\_LAST

    public static final int CONTAINER\_LAST

    The last number in the range of ids used for container events.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ContainerEvent.CONTAINER_LAST)
  + ### COMPONENT\_ADDED

    public static final int COMPONENT\_ADDED

    This event indicates that a component was added to the container.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ContainerEvent.COMPONENT_ADDED)
  + ### COMPONENT\_REMOVED

    public static final int COMPONENT\_REMOVED

    This event indicates that a component was removed from the container.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ContainerEvent.COMPONENT_REMOVED)
* ## Constructor Details

  + ### ContainerEvent

    public ContainerEvent([Component](../Component.md "class in java.awt") source,
    int id,
    [Component](../Component.md "class in java.awt") child)

    Constructs a `ContainerEvent` object.

    This method throws an
    `IllegalArgumentException` if `source`
    is `null`.

    Parameters:
    :   `source` - The `Component` object (container)
        that originated the event
    :   `id` - An integer indicating the type of event.
        For information on allowable values, see
        the class description for [`ContainerEvent`](ContainerEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")
    :   `child` - the component that was added or removed

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `source` is null

    See Also:
    :   - [`getContainer()`](#getContainer())
        - [`AWTEvent.getID()`](../AWTEvent.md#getID())
        - [`getChild()`](#getChild())
* ## Method Details

  + ### getContainer

    public [Container](../Container.md "class in java.awt") getContainer()

    Returns the originator of the event.

    Returns:
    :   the `Container` object that originated
        the event, or `null` if the object is not a
        `Container`.
  + ### getChild

    public [Component](../Component.md "class in java.awt") getChild()

    Returns the component that was affected by the event.

    Returns:
    :   the Component object that was added or removed
  + ### paramString

    public [String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") paramString()

    Returns a parameter string identifying this event.
    This method is useful for event-logging and for debugging.

    Overrides:
    :   `paramString` in class `ComponentEvent`

    Returns:
    :   a string identifying the event and its attributes