Module [java.desktop](../../../module-summary.md)

Package [java.awt.event](package-summary.md)

# Class ItemEvent

[java.lang.Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

[java.util.EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

[java.awt.AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

java.awt.event.ItemEvent

All Implemented Interfaces:
:   `Serializable`

---

public class ItemEvent
extends [AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

A semantic event which indicates that an item was selected or deselected.
This high-level event is generated by an ItemSelectable object (such as a
List) when an item is selected or deselected by the user.
The event is passed to every `ItemListener` object which
registered to receive such events using the component's
`addItemListener` method.

The object that implements the `ItemListener` interface gets
this `ItemEvent` when the event occurs. The listener is
spared the details of processing individual mouse movements and mouse
clicks, and can instead process a "meaningful" (semantic) event like
"item selected" or "item deselected".

An unspecified behavior will be caused if the `id` parameter
of any particular `ItemEvent` instance is not
in the range from `ITEM_FIRST` to `ITEM_LAST`.

The `stateChange` of any `ItemEvent` instance takes one of the following
values:

* `ItemEvent.SELECTED`* `ItemEvent.DESELECTED`

Assigning the value different from listed above will cause an unspecified behavior.

Since:
:   1.1

See Also:
:   * [`ItemSelectable`](../ItemSelectable.md "interface in java.awt")
    * [`ItemListener`](ItemListener.md "interface in java.awt.event")
    * [Tutorial: Writing an Item Listener](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/uiswing/events/itemlistener.html)
    * [Serialized Form](../../../../serialized-form.md#java.awt.event.ItemEvent)

* ## Field Summary

  Fields

  Modifier and Type

  Field

  Description

  `static final int`

  `DESELECTED`

  This state-change-value indicates that a selected item was deselected.

  `static final int`

  `ITEM_FIRST`

  The first number in the range of ids used for item events.

  `static final int`

  `ITEM_LAST`

  The last number in the range of ids used for item events.

  `static final int`

  `ITEM_STATE_CHANGED`

  This event id indicates that an item's state changed.

  `static final int`

  `SELECTED`

  This state-change value indicates that an item was selected.

  ### Fields inherited from class java.awt.[AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

  `ACTION_EVENT_MASK, ADJUSTMENT_EVENT_MASK, COMPONENT_EVENT_MASK, consumed, CONTAINER_EVENT_MASK, FOCUS_EVENT_MASK, HIERARCHY_BOUNDS_EVENT_MASK, HIERARCHY_EVENT_MASK, id, INPUT_METHOD_EVENT_MASK, INVOCATION_EVENT_MASK, ITEM_EVENT_MASK, KEY_EVENT_MASK, MOUSE_EVENT_MASK, MOUSE_MOTION_EVENT_MASK, MOUSE_WHEEL_EVENT_MASK, PAINT_EVENT_MASK, RESERVED_ID_MAX, TEXT_EVENT_MASK, WINDOW_EVENT_MASK, WINDOW_FOCUS_EVENT_MASK, WINDOW_STATE_EVENT_MASK`

  ### Fields inherited from class java.util.[EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

  `source`
* ## Constructor Summary

  Constructors

  Constructor

  Description

  `ItemEvent(ItemSelectable source,
  int id,
  Object item,
  int stateChange)`

  Constructs an `ItemEvent` object.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsInstance MethodsConcrete Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `Object`

  `getItem()`

  Returns the item affected by the event.

  `ItemSelectable`

  `getItemSelectable()`

  Returns the originator of the event.

  `int`

  `getStateChange()`

  Returns the type of state change (selected or deselected).

  `String`

  `paramString()`

  Returns a parameter string identifying this item event.

  ### Methods inherited from class java.awt.[AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

  `consume, getID, isConsumed, setSource, toString`

  ### Methods inherited from class java.util.[EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

  `getSource`

  ### Methods inherited from class java.lang.[Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `clone, equals, finalize, getClass, hashCode, notify, notifyAll, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Field Details

  + ### ITEM\_FIRST

    public static final int ITEM\_FIRST

    The first number in the range of ids used for item events.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ItemEvent.ITEM_FIRST)
  + ### ITEM\_LAST

    public static final int ITEM\_LAST

    The last number in the range of ids used for item events.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ItemEvent.ITEM_LAST)
  + ### ITEM\_STATE\_CHANGED

    public static final int ITEM\_STATE\_CHANGED

    This event id indicates that an item's state changed.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ItemEvent.ITEM_STATE_CHANGED)
  + ### SELECTED

    public static final int SELECTED

    This state-change value indicates that an item was selected.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ItemEvent.SELECTED)
  + ### DESELECTED

    public static final int DESELECTED

    This state-change-value indicates that a selected item was deselected.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.ItemEvent.DESELECTED)
* ## Constructor Details

  + ### ItemEvent

    public ItemEvent([ItemSelectable](../ItemSelectable.md "interface in java.awt") source,
    int id,
    [Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") item,
    int stateChange)

    Constructs an `ItemEvent` object.

    This method throws an
    `IllegalArgumentException` if `source`
    is `null`.

    Parameters:
    :   `source` - The `ItemSelectable` object
        that originated the event
    :   `id` - The integer that identifies the event type.
        For information on allowable values, see
        the class description for [`ItemEvent`](ItemEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")
    :   `item` - An object -- the item affected by the event
    :   `stateChange` - An integer that indicates whether the item was
        selected or deselected.
        For information on allowable values, see
        the class description for [`ItemEvent`](ItemEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `source` is null

    See Also:
    :   - [`getItemSelectable()`](#getItemSelectable())
        - [`AWTEvent.getID()`](../AWTEvent.md#getID())
        - [`getStateChange()`](#getStateChange())
* ## Method Details

  + ### getItemSelectable

    public [ItemSelectable](../ItemSelectable.md "interface in java.awt") getItemSelectable()

    Returns the originator of the event.

    Returns:
    :   the ItemSelectable object that originated the event.
  + ### getItem

    public [Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang") getItem()

    Returns the item affected by the event.

    Returns:
    :   the item (object) that was affected by the event
  + ### getStateChange

    public int getStateChange()

    Returns the type of state change (selected or deselected).

    Returns:
    :   an integer that indicates whether the item was selected
        or deselected

    See Also:
    :   - [`SELECTED`](#SELECTED)
        - [`DESELECTED`](#DESELECTED)
  + ### paramString

    public [String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang") paramString()

    Returns a parameter string identifying this item event.
    This method is useful for event-logging and for debugging.

    Overrides:
    :   `paramString` in class `AWTEvent`

    Returns:
    :   a string identifying the event and its attributes