Moduleô [java.desktop](../../../module-summary.md)

Packageô [java.awt.event](package-summary.md)

# Class MouseEvent

[java.lang.Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

[java.util.EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

[java.awt.AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

[java.awt.event.ComponentEvent](ComponentEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

[java.awt.event.InputEvent](InputEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

java.awt.event.MouseEvent

All Implemented Interfaces:
:   `Serializable`

Direct Known Subclasses:
:   `MenuDragMouseEvent`, `MouseWheelEvent`

---

public non-sealed class MouseEvent
extends [InputEvent](InputEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

An event which indicates that a mouse action occurred in a component.
A mouse action is considered to occur in a particular component if and only
if the mouse cursor is over the unobscured part of the component's bounds
when the action happens.
For lightweight components, such as Swing's components, mouse events
are only dispatched to the component if the mouse event type has been
enabled on the component. A mouse event type is enabled by adding the
appropriate mouse-based `EventListener` to the component
([`MouseListener`](MouseListener.md "interface in java.awt.event") or [`MouseMotionListener`](MouseMotionListener.md "interface in java.awt.event")), or by invoking
[`Component.enableEvents(long)`](../Component.md#enableEvents(long)) with the appropriate mask parameter
(`AWTEvent.MOUSE_EVENT_MASK` or `AWTEvent.MOUSE_MOTION_EVENT_MASK`).
If the mouse event type has not been enabled on the component, the
corresponding mouse events are dispatched to the first ancestor that
has enabled the mouse event type.

For example, if a `MouseListener` has been added to a component, or
`enableEvents(AWTEvent.MOUSE_EVENT_MASK)` has been invoked, then all
the events defined by `MouseListener` are dispatched to the component.
On the other hand, if a `MouseMotionListener` has not been added and
`enableEvents` has not been invoked with
`AWTEvent.MOUSE_MOTION_EVENT_MASK`, then mouse motion events are not
dispatched to the component. Instead the mouse motion events are
dispatched to the first ancestors that has enabled mouse motion
events.

This low-level event is generated by a component object for:

* Mouse Events
  + a mouse button is pressed+ a mouse button is released+ a mouse button is clicked (pressed and released)+ the mouse cursor enters the unobscured part of component's geometry+ the mouse cursor exits the unobscured part of component's geometry* Mouse Motion Events
    + the mouse is moved+ the mouse is dragged

A `MouseEvent` object is passed to every
`MouseListener`
or `MouseAdapter` object which is registered to receive
the "interesting" mouse events using the component's
`addMouseListener` method.
(`MouseAdapter` objects implement the
`MouseListener` interface.) Each such listener object
gets a `MouseEvent` containing the mouse event.

A `MouseEvent` object is also passed to every
`MouseMotionListener` or
`MouseMotionAdapter` object which is registered to receive
mouse motion events using the component's
`addMouseMotionListener`
method. (`MouseMotionAdapter` objects implement the
`MouseMotionListener` interface.) Each such listener object
gets a `MouseEvent` containing the mouse motion event.

When a mouse button is clicked, events are generated and sent to the
registered `MouseListener`s.
The state of modal keys can be retrieved using [`InputEvent.getModifiers()`](InputEvent.md#getModifiers())
and [`InputEvent.getModifiersEx()`](InputEvent.md#getModifiersEx()).
The button mask returned by [`InputEvent.getModifiers()`](InputEvent.md#getModifiers()) reflects
only the button that changed state, not the current state of all buttons.
(Note: Due to overlap in the values of ALT\_MASK/BUTTON2\_MASK and
META\_MASK/BUTTON3\_MASK, this is not always true for mouse events involving
modifier keys).
To get the state of all buttons and modifier keys, use
[`InputEvent.getModifiersEx()`](InputEvent.md#getModifiersEx()).
The button which has changed state is returned by [`getButton()`](#getButton())

For example, if the first mouse button is pressed, events are sent in the
following order:

```
    id              modifiers    button
    MOUSE_PRESSED:  BUTTON1_MASK BUTTON1
    MOUSE_RELEASED: BUTTON1_MASK BUTTON1
    MOUSE_CLICKED:  BUTTON1_MASK BUTTON1
```

When multiple mouse buttons are pressed, each press, release, and click
results in a separate event.

For example, if the user presses **button 1** followed by
**button 2**, and then releases them in the same order,
the following sequence of events is generated:

```
    id              modifiers    button
    MOUSE_PRESSED:  BUTTON1_MASK BUTTON1
    MOUSE_PRESSED:  BUTTON2_MASK BUTTON2
    MOUSE_RELEASED: BUTTON1_MASK BUTTON1
    MOUSE_CLICKED:  BUTTON1_MASK BUTTON1
    MOUSE_RELEASED: BUTTON2_MASK BUTTON2
    MOUSE_CLICKED:  BUTTON2_MASK BUTTON2
```

If **button 2** is released first, the
`MOUSE_RELEASED`/`MOUSE_CLICKED` pair
for `BUTTON2_MASK` arrives first,
followed by the pair for `BUTTON1_MASK`.

Some extra mouse buttons are added to extend the standard set of buttons
represented by the following constants:`BUTTON1`, `BUTTON2`, and `BUTTON3`.
Extra buttons have no assigned `BUTTONx`
constants as well as their button masks have no assigned `BUTTONx_DOWN_MASK`
constants. Nevertheless, ordinal numbers starting from 4 may be
used as button numbers (button ids). Values obtained by the
[`getMaskForButton(button)`](InputEvent.md#getMaskForButton(int)) method may be used
as button masks.

`MOUSE_DRAGGED` events are delivered to the `Component`
in which the mouse button was pressed until the mouse button is released
(regardless of whether the mouse position is within the bounds of the
`Component`). Due to platform-dependent Drag&Drop implementations,
`MOUSE_DRAGGED` events may not be delivered during a native
Drag&Drop operation.
In a multi-screen environment mouse drag events are delivered to the
`Component` even if the mouse position is outside the bounds of the
`GraphicsConfiguration` associated with that
`Component`. However, the reported position for mouse drag events
in this case may differ from the actual mouse position:

* In a multi-screen environment without a virtual device:
    
  The reported coordinates for mouse drag events are clipped to fit within the
  bounds of the `GraphicsConfiguration` associated with
  the `Component`.* In a multi-screen environment with a virtual device:
      
    The reported coordinates for mouse drag events are clipped to fit within the
    bounds of the virtual device associated with the `Component`.

An unspecified behavior will be caused if the `id` parameter
of any particular `MouseEvent` instance is not
in the range from `MOUSE_FIRST` to `MOUSE_LAST`-1
(`MOUSE_WHEEL` is not acceptable).

Since:
:   1.1

See Also:
:   * [`MouseAdapter`](MouseAdapter.md "class in java.awt.event")
    * [`MouseListener`](MouseListener.md "interface in java.awt.event")
    * [`MouseMotionAdapter`](MouseMotionAdapter.md "class in java.awt.event")
    * [`MouseMotionListener`](MouseMotionListener.md "interface in java.awt.event")
    * [`MouseWheelListener`](MouseWheelListener.md "interface in java.awt.event")
    * [Tutorial: Writing a Mouse Listener](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/uiswing/events/mouselistener.html)
    * [Tutorial: Writing a Mouse Motion Listener](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/uiswing/events/mousemotionlistener.html)
    * [Serialized Form](../../../../serialized-form.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent)

* ## Field Summary

  Fields

  Modifier and Type

  Field

  Description

  `static final int`

  `BUTTON1`

  Indicates mouse button #1; used by [`getButton()`](#getButton()).

  `static final int`

  `BUTTON2`

  Indicates mouse button #2; used by [`getButton()`](#getButton()).

  `static final int`

  `BUTTON3`

  Indicates mouse button #3; used by [`getButton()`](#getButton()).

  `static final int`

  `MOUSE_CLICKED`

  The "mouse clicked" event.

  `static final int`

  `MOUSE_DRAGGED`

  The "mouse dragged" event.

  `static final int`

  `MOUSE_ENTERED`

  The "mouse entered" event.

  `static final int`

  `MOUSE_EXITED`

  The "mouse exited" event.

  `static final int`

  `MOUSE_FIRST`

  The first number in the range of ids used for mouse events.

  `static final int`

  `MOUSE_LAST`

  The last number in the range of ids used for mouse events.

  `static final int`

  `MOUSE_MOVED`

  The "mouse moved" event.

  `static final int`

  `MOUSE_PRESSED`

  The "mouse pressed" event.

  `static final int`

  `MOUSE_RELEASED`

  The "mouse released" event.

  `static final int`

  `MOUSE_WHEEL`

  The "mouse wheel" event.

  `static final int`

  `NOBUTTON`

  Indicates no mouse buttons; used by [`getButton()`](#getButton()).

  ### Fields inherited from classô java.awt.event.[InputEvent](InputEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

  `ALT_DOWN_MASK, ALT_GRAPH_DOWN_MASK, ALT_GRAPH_MASK, ALT_MASK, BUTTON1_DOWN_MASK, BUTTON1_MASK, BUTTON2_DOWN_MASK, BUTTON2_MASK, BUTTON3_DOWN_MASK, BUTTON3_MASK, CTRL_DOWN_MASK, CTRL_MASK, META_DOWN_MASK, META_MASK, SHIFT_DOWN_MASK, SHIFT_MASK`

  ### Fields inherited from classô java.awt.event.[ComponentEvent](ComponentEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

  `COMPONENT_FIRST, COMPONENT_HIDDEN, COMPONENT_LAST, COMPONENT_MOVED, COMPONENT_RESIZED, COMPONENT_SHOWN`

  ### Fields inherited from classô java.awt.[AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

  `ACTION_EVENT_MASK, ADJUSTMENT_EVENT_MASK, COMPONENT_EVENT_MASK, consumed, CONTAINER_EVENT_MASK, FOCUS_EVENT_MASK, HIERARCHY_BOUNDS_EVENT_MASK, HIERARCHY_EVENT_MASK, id, INPUT_METHOD_EVENT_MASK, INVOCATION_EVENT_MASK, ITEM_EVENT_MASK, KEY_EVENT_MASK, MOUSE_EVENT_MASK, MOUSE_MOTION_EVENT_MASK, MOUSE_WHEEL_EVENT_MASK, PAINT_EVENT_MASK, RESERVED_ID_MAX, TEXT_EVENT_MASK, WINDOW_EVENT_MASK, WINDOW_FOCUS_EVENT_MASK, WINDOW_STATE_EVENT_MASK`

  ### Fields inherited from classô java.util.[EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

  `source`
* ## Constructor Summary

  Constructors

  Constructor

  Description

  `MouseEvent(Componentô source,
  intô id,
  longô when,
  intô modifiers,
  intô x,
  intô y,
  intô clickCount,
  booleanô popupTrigger)`

  Constructs a `MouseEvent` object with the
  specified source component,
  type, modifiers, coordinates, click count, and popupTrigger flag.

  `MouseEvent(Componentô source,
  intô id,
  longô when,
  intô modifiers,
  intô x,
  intô y,
  intô clickCount,
  booleanô popupTrigger,
  intô button)`

  Constructs a `MouseEvent` object with the
  specified source component,
  type, time, modifiers, coordinates, click count, popupTrigger flag,
  and button number.

  `MouseEvent(Componentô source,
  intô id,
  longô when,
  intô modifiers,
  intô x,
  intô y,
  intô xAbs,
  intô yAbs,
  intô clickCount,
  booleanô popupTrigger,
  intô button)`

  Constructs a `MouseEvent` object with the
  specified source component,
  type, time, modifiers, coordinates, absolute coordinates, click count, popupTrigger flag,
  and button number.
* ## Method Summary

  All MethodsStatic MethodsInstance MethodsConcrete Methods

  Modifier and Type

  Method

  Description

  `int`

  `getButton()`

  Returns which, if any, of the mouse buttons has changed state.

  `int`

  `getClickCount()`

  Returns the number of mouse clicks associated with this event.

  `Point`

  `getLocationOnScreen()`

  Returns the absolute x, y position of the event.

  `int`

  `getModifiersEx()`

  Returns the extended modifier mask for this event.

  `static String`

  `getMouseModifiersText(intô modifiers)`

  Returns a `String` instance describing the modifier keys and
  mouse buttons that were down during the event, such as "Shift",
  or "Ctrl+Shift".

  `Point`

  `getPoint()`

  Returns the x,y position of the event relative to the source component.

  `int`

  `getX()`

  Returns the horizontal x position of the event relative to the
  source component.

  `int`

  `getXOnScreen()`

  Returns the absolute horizontal x position of the event.

  `int`

  `getY()`

  Returns the vertical y position of the event relative to the
  source component.

  `int`

  `getYOnScreen()`

  Returns the absolute vertical y position of the event.

  `boolean`

  `isPopupTrigger()`

  Returns whether or not this mouse event is the popup menu
  trigger event for the platform.

  `String`

  `paramString()`

  Returns a parameter string identifying this event.

  `void`

  `translatePoint(intô x,
  intô y)`

  Translates the event's coordinates to a new position
  by adding specified `x` (horizontal) and `y`
  (vertical) offsets.

  ### Methods inherited from classô java.awt.event.[InputEvent](InputEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

  `consume, getMaskForButton, getModifiers, getModifiersExText, getWhen, isAltDown, isAltGraphDown, isConsumed, isControlDown, isMetaDown, isShiftDown`

  ### Methods inherited from classô java.awt.event.[ComponentEvent](ComponentEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")

  `getComponent`

  ### Methods inherited from classô java.awt.[AWTEvent](../AWTEvent.md "class in java.awt")

  `getID, setSource, toString`

  ### Methods inherited from classô java.util.[EventObject](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md "class in java.util")

  `getSource`

  ### Methods inherited from classô java.lang.[Object](../../../../java.base/java/lang/Object.md "class in java.lang")

  `clone, equals, finalize, getClass, hashCode, notify, notifyAll, wait, wait, wait`

* ## Field Details

  + ### MOUSE\_FIRST

    public static finalô intô MOUSE\_FIRST

    The first number in the range of ids used for mouse events.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.MOUSE_FIRST)
  + ### MOUSE\_LAST

    public static finalô intô MOUSE\_LAST

    The last number in the range of ids used for mouse events.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.MOUSE_LAST)
  + ### MOUSE\_CLICKED

    public static finalô intô MOUSE\_CLICKED

    The "mouse clicked" event. This `MouseEvent`
    occurs when a mouse button is pressed and released.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.MOUSE_CLICKED)
  + ### MOUSE\_PRESSED

    public static finalô intô MOUSE\_PRESSED

    The "mouse pressed" event. This `MouseEvent`
    occurs when a mouse button is pushed down.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.MOUSE_PRESSED)
  + ### MOUSE\_RELEASED

    public static finalô intô MOUSE\_RELEASED

    The "mouse released" event. This `MouseEvent`
    occurs when a mouse button is let up.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.MOUSE_RELEASED)
  + ### MOUSE\_MOVED

    public static finalô intô MOUSE\_MOVED

    The "mouse moved" event. This `MouseEvent`
    occurs when the mouse position changes.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.MOUSE_MOVED)
  + ### MOUSE\_ENTERED

    public static finalô intô MOUSE\_ENTERED

    The "mouse entered" event. This `MouseEvent`
    occurs when the mouse cursor enters the unobscured part of component's
    geometry.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.MOUSE_ENTERED)
  + ### MOUSE\_EXITED

    public static finalô intô MOUSE\_EXITED

    The "mouse exited" event. This `MouseEvent`
    occurs when the mouse cursor exits the unobscured part of component's
    geometry.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.MOUSE_EXITED)
  + ### MOUSE\_DRAGGED

    public static finalô intô MOUSE\_DRAGGED

    The "mouse dragged" event. This `MouseEvent`
    occurs when the mouse position changes while a mouse button is pressed.

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.MOUSE_DRAGGED)
  + ### MOUSE\_WHEEL

    public static finalô intô MOUSE\_WHEEL

    The "mouse wheel" event. This is the only `MouseWheelEvent`.
    It occurs when a mouse equipped with a wheel has its wheel rotated.

    Since:
    :   1.4

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.MOUSE_WHEEL)
  + ### NOBUTTON

    public static finalô intô NOBUTTON

    Indicates no mouse buttons; used by [`getButton()`](#getButton()).

    Since:
    :   1.4

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.NOBUTTON)
  + ### BUTTON1

    public static finalô intô BUTTON1

    Indicates mouse button #1; used by [`getButton()`](#getButton()).

    Since:
    :   1.4

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.BUTTON1)
  + ### BUTTON2

    public static finalô intô BUTTON2

    Indicates mouse button #2; used by [`getButton()`](#getButton()).

    Since:
    :   1.4

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.BUTTON2)
  + ### BUTTON3

    public static finalô intô BUTTON3

    Indicates mouse button #3; used by [`getButton()`](#getButton()).

    Since:
    :   1.4

    See Also:
    :   - [Constant Field Values](../../../../constant-values.md#java.awt.event.MouseEvent.BUTTON3)
* ## Constructor Details

  + ### MouseEvent

    publicô MouseEvent([Component](../Component.md "class in java.awt")ô source,
    intô id,
    longô when,
    intô modifiers,
    intô x,
    intô y,
    intô clickCount,
    booleanô popupTrigger,
    intô button)

    Constructs a `MouseEvent` object with the
    specified source component,
    type, time, modifiers, coordinates, click count, popupTrigger flag,
    and button number.

    Creating an invalid event (such
    as by using more than one of the old \_MASKs, or modifier/button
    values which don't match) results in unspecified behavior.
    An invocation of the form
    `MouseEvent(source, id, when, modifiers, x, y, clickCount, popupTrigger, button)`
    behaves in exactly the same way as the invocation
    [`MouseEvent(source, id, when, modifiers,
    x, y, xAbs, yAbs, clickCount, popupTrigger, button)`](#%3Cinit%3E(java.awt.Component,int,long,int,int,int,int,int,int,boolean,int))
    where xAbs and yAbs defines as source's location on screen plus
    relative coordinates x and y.
    xAbs and yAbs are set to zero if the source is not showing.
    This method throws an
    `IllegalArgumentException` if `source`
    is `null`.

    Parameters:
    :   `source` - The `Component` that originated the event
    :   `id` - An integer indicating the type of event.
        For information on allowable values, see
        the class description for [`MouseEvent`](MouseEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")
    :   `when` - A long integer that gives the time the event occurred.
        Passing negative or zero value
        is not recommended
    :   `modifiers` - a modifier mask describing the modifier keys and mouse
        buttons (for example, shift, ctrl, alt, and meta) that
        are down during the event.
        Only extended modifiers are allowed to be used as a
        value for this parameter (see the [`InputEvent.getModifiersEx()`](InputEvent.md#getModifiersEx())
        class for the description of extended modifiers).
        Passing negative parameter
        is not recommended.
        Zero value means that no modifiers were passed
    :   `x` - The horizontal x coordinate for the mouse location.
        It is allowed to pass negative values
    :   `y` - The vertical y coordinate for the mouse location.
        It is allowed to pass negative values
    :   `clickCount` - The number of mouse clicks associated with event.
        Passing negative value
        is not recommended
    :   `popupTrigger` - A boolean that equals `true` if this event
        is a trigger for a popup menu
    :   `button` - An integer that indicates, which of the mouse buttons has
        changed its state.
        The following rules are applied to this parameter:
        - If support for the extended mouse buttons is
          [`disabled`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled()) by Java
          then it is allowed to create `MouseEvent` objects only with the standard buttons:
          `NOBUTTON`, `BUTTON1`, `BUTTON2`, and
          `BUTTON3`.- If support for the extended mouse buttons is
            [`enabled`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled()) by Java
            then it is allowed to create `MouseEvent` objects with
            the standard buttons.
            In case the support for extended mouse buttons is
            [`enabled`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled()) by Java, then
            in addition to the standard buttons, `MouseEvent` objects can be created
            using buttons from the range starting from 4 to
            [`MouseInfo.getNumberOfButtons()`](../MouseInfo.md#getNumberOfButtons())
            if the mouse has more than three buttons.

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `button` is less than zero
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `source` is null
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `button` is greater than BUTTON3
        and the support for extended mouse buttons is
        [`disabled`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled()) by Java
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `button` is greater than the
        [`current number of buttons`](../MouseInfo.md#getNumberOfButtons())
        and the support for extended mouse buttons is
        [`enabled`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled())
        by Java
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if an invalid `button`
        value is passed in
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `source` is null

    Since:
    :   1.4

    See Also:
    :   - [`EventObject.getSource()`](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md#getSource())
        - [`AWTEvent.getID()`](../AWTEvent.md#getID())
        - [`InputEvent.getWhen()`](InputEvent.md#getWhen())
        - [`InputEvent.getModifiers()`](InputEvent.md#getModifiers())
        - [`getX()`](#getX())
        - [`getY()`](#getY())
        - [`getClickCount()`](#getClickCount())
        - [`isPopupTrigger()`](#isPopupTrigger())
        - [`getButton()`](#getButton())
  + ### MouseEvent

    publicô MouseEvent([Component](../Component.md "class in java.awt")ô source,
    intô id,
    longô when,
    intô modifiers,
    intô x,
    intô y,
    intô clickCount,
    booleanô popupTrigger)

    Constructs a `MouseEvent` object with the
    specified source component,
    type, modifiers, coordinates, click count, and popupTrigger flag.
    An invocation of the form
    `MouseEvent(source, id, when, modifiers, x, y, clickCount, popupTrigger)`
    behaves in exactly the same way as the invocation
    [`MouseEvent(source, id, when, modifiers,
    x, y, xAbs, yAbs, clickCount, popupTrigger, MouseEvent.NOBUTTON)`](#%3Cinit%3E(java.awt.Component,int,long,int,int,int,int,int,int,boolean,int))
    where xAbs and yAbs defines as source's location on screen plus
    relative coordinates x and y.
    xAbs and yAbs are set to zero if the source is not showing.
    This method throws an `IllegalArgumentException`
    if `source` is `null`.

    Parameters:
    :   `source` - The `Component` that originated the event
    :   `id` - An integer indicating the type of event.
        For information on allowable values, see
        the class description for [`MouseEvent`](MouseEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")
    :   `when` - A long integer that gives the time the event occurred.
        Passing negative or zero value
        is not recommended
    :   `modifiers` - a modifier mask describing the modifier keys and mouse
        buttons (for example, shift, ctrl, alt, and meta) that
        are down during the event.
        Only extended modifiers are allowed to be used as a
        value for this parameter (see the [`InputEvent.getModifiersEx()`](InputEvent.md#getModifiersEx())
        class for the description of extended modifiers).
        Passing negative parameter
        is not recommended.
        Zero value means that no modifiers were passed
    :   `x` - The horizontal x coordinate for the mouse location.
        It is allowed to pass negative values
    :   `y` - The vertical y coordinate for the mouse location.
        It is allowed to pass negative values
    :   `clickCount` - The number of mouse clicks associated with event.
        Passing negative value
        is not recommended
    :   `popupTrigger` - A boolean that equals `true` if this event
        is a trigger for a popup menu

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `source` is null

    See Also:
    :   - [`EventObject.getSource()`](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md#getSource())
        - [`AWTEvent.getID()`](../AWTEvent.md#getID())
        - [`InputEvent.getWhen()`](InputEvent.md#getWhen())
        - [`InputEvent.getModifiers()`](InputEvent.md#getModifiers())
        - [`getX()`](#getX())
        - [`getY()`](#getY())
        - [`getClickCount()`](#getClickCount())
        - [`isPopupTrigger()`](#isPopupTrigger())
  + ### MouseEvent

    publicô MouseEvent([Component](../Component.md "class in java.awt")ô source,
    intô id,
    longô when,
    intô modifiers,
    intô x,
    intô y,
    intô xAbs,
    intô yAbs,
    intô clickCount,
    booleanô popupTrigger,
    intô button)

    Constructs a `MouseEvent` object with the
    specified source component,
    type, time, modifiers, coordinates, absolute coordinates, click count, popupTrigger flag,
    and button number.

    Creating an invalid event (such
    as by using more than one of the old \_MASKs, or modifier/button
    values which don't match) results in unspecified behavior.
    Even if inconsistent values for relative and absolute coordinates are
    passed to the constructor, the mouse event instance is still
    created and no exception is thrown.
    This method throws an
    `IllegalArgumentException` if `source`
    is `null`.

    Parameters:
    :   `source` - The `Component` that originated the event
    :   `id` - An integer indicating the type of event.
        For information on allowable values, see
        the class description for [`MouseEvent`](MouseEvent.md "class in java.awt.event")
    :   `when` - A long integer that gives the time the event occurred.
        Passing negative or zero value
        is not recommended
    :   `modifiers` - a modifier mask describing the modifier keys and mouse
        buttons (for example, shift, ctrl, alt, and meta) that
        are down during the event.
        Only extended modifiers are allowed to be used as a
        value for this parameter (see the [`InputEvent.getModifiersEx()`](InputEvent.md#getModifiersEx())
        class for the description of extended modifiers).
        Passing negative parameter
        is not recommended.
        Zero value means that no modifiers were passed
    :   `x` - The horizontal x coordinate for the mouse location.
        It is allowed to pass negative values
    :   `y` - The vertical y coordinate for the mouse location.
        It is allowed to pass negative values
    :   `xAbs` - The absolute horizontal x coordinate for the mouse location
        It is allowed to pass negative values
    :   `yAbs` - The absolute vertical y coordinate for the mouse location
        It is allowed to pass negative values
    :   `clickCount` - The number of mouse clicks associated with event.
        Passing negative value
        is not recommended
    :   `popupTrigger` - A boolean that equals `true` if this event
        is a trigger for a popup menu
    :   `button` - An integer that indicates, which of the mouse buttons has
        changed its state.
        The following rules are applied to this parameter:
        - If support for the extended mouse buttons is
          [`disabled`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled()) by Java
          then it is allowed to create `MouseEvent` objects only with the standard buttons:
          `NOBUTTON`, `BUTTON1`, `BUTTON2`, and
          `BUTTON3`.- If support for the extended mouse buttons is
            [`enabled`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled()) by Java
            then it is allowed to create `MouseEvent` objects with
            the standard buttons.
            In case the support for extended mouse buttons is
            [`enabled`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled()) by Java, then
            in addition to the standard buttons, `MouseEvent` objects can be created
            using buttons from the range starting from 4 to
            [`MouseInfo.getNumberOfButtons()`](../MouseInfo.md#getNumberOfButtons())
            if the mouse has more than three buttons.

    Throws:
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `button` is less than zero
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `source` is null
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `button` is greater than BUTTON3
        and the support for extended mouse buttons is
        [`disabled`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled()) by Java
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `button` is greater than the
        [`current number of buttons`](../MouseInfo.md#getNumberOfButtons()) and the support
        for extended mouse buttons is [`enabled`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled())
        by Java
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if an invalid `button`
        value is passed in
    :   `IllegalArgumentException` - if `source` is null

    Since:
    :   1.6

    See Also:
    :   - [`EventObject.getSource()`](../../../../java.base/java/util/EventObject.md#getSource())
        - [`AWTEvent.getID()`](../AWTEvent.md#getID())
        - [`InputEvent.getWhen()`](InputEvent.md#getWhen())
        - [`InputEvent.getModifiers()`](InputEvent.md#getModifiers())
        - [`getX()`](#getX())
        - [`getY()`](#getY())
        - [`getXOnScreen()`](#getXOnScreen())
        - [`getYOnScreen()`](#getYOnScreen())
        - [`getClickCount()`](#getClickCount())
        - [`isPopupTrigger()`](#isPopupTrigger())
        - [`getButton()`](#getButton())
        - [`Toolkit.areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled()`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled())
        - [`MouseInfo.getNumberOfButtons()`](../MouseInfo.md#getNumberOfButtons())
        - [`InputEvent.getMaskForButton(int)`](InputEvent.md#getMaskForButton(int))
* ## Method Details

  + ### getLocationOnScreen

    publicô [Point](../Point.md "class in java.awt")ô getLocationOnScreen()

    Returns the absolute x, y position of the event.
    In a virtual device multi-screen environment in which the
    desktop area could span multiple physical screen devices,
    these coordinates are relative to the virtual coordinate system.
    Otherwise, these coordinates are relative to the coordinate system
    associated with the Component's GraphicsConfiguration.

    Returns:
    :   a `Point` object containing the absolute x
        and y coordinates.

    Since:
    :   1.6

    See Also:
    :   - [`GraphicsConfiguration`](../GraphicsConfiguration.md "class in java.awt")
  + ### getXOnScreen

    publicô intô getXOnScreen()

    Returns the absolute horizontal x position of the event.
    In a virtual device multi-screen environment in which the
    desktop area could span multiple physical screen devices,
    this coordinate is relative to the virtual coordinate system.
    Otherwise, this coordinate is relative to the coordinate system
    associated with the Component's GraphicsConfiguration.

    Returns:
    :   x an integer indicating absolute horizontal position.

    Since:
    :   1.6

    See Also:
    :   - [`GraphicsConfiguration`](../GraphicsConfiguration.md "class in java.awt")
  + ### getYOnScreen

    publicô intô getYOnScreen()

    Returns the absolute vertical y position of the event.
    In a virtual device multi-screen environment in which the
    desktop area could span multiple physical screen devices,
    this coordinate is relative to the virtual coordinate system.
    Otherwise, this coordinate is relative to the coordinate system
    associated with the Component's GraphicsConfiguration.

    Returns:
    :   y an integer indicating absolute vertical position.

    Since:
    :   1.6

    See Also:
    :   - [`GraphicsConfiguration`](../GraphicsConfiguration.md "class in java.awt")
  + ### getModifiersEx

    publicô intô getModifiersEx()

    Returns the extended modifier mask for this event.

    Extended modifiers are the modifiers that ends with the \_DOWN\_MASK suffix,
    such as ALT\_DOWN\_MASK, BUTTON1\_DOWN\_MASK, and others.

    Extended modifiers represent the state of all modal keys,
    such as ALT, CTRL, META, and the mouse buttons just after
    the event occurred.

    For example, if the user presses **button 1** followed by
    **button 2**, and then releases them in the same order,
    the following sequence of events is generated:

    ```
        MOUSE_PRESSED:  BUTTON1_DOWN_MASK
        MOUSE_PRESSED:  BUTTON1_DOWN_MASK | BUTTON2_DOWN_MASK
        MOUSE_RELEASED: BUTTON2_DOWN_MASK
        MOUSE_CLICKED:  BUTTON2_DOWN_MASK
        MOUSE_RELEASED:
        MOUSE_CLICKED:
    ```

    It is not recommended to compare the return value of this method
    using `==` because new modifiers can be added in the future.
    For example, the appropriate way to check that SHIFT and BUTTON1 are
    down, but CTRL is up is demonstrated by the following code:

    ```
        int onmask = SHIFT_DOWN_MASK | BUTTON1_DOWN_MASK;
        int offmask = CTRL_DOWN_MASK;
        if ((event.getModifiersEx() & (onmask | offmask)) == onmask) {
            ...
        }
    ```

    The above code will work even if new modifiers are added.

    Overrides:
    :   `getModifiersEx`ô in classô `InputEvent`

    Returns:
    :   the extended modifier mask for this event
  + ### getX

    publicô intô getX()

    Returns the horizontal x position of the event relative to the
    source component.

    Returns:
    :   x an integer indicating horizontal position relative to
        the component
  + ### getY

    publicô intô getY()

    Returns the vertical y position of the event relative to the
    source component.

    Returns:
    :   y an integer indicating vertical position relative to
        the component
  + ### getPoint

    publicô [Point](../Point.md "class in java.awt")ô getPoint()

    Returns the x,y position of the event relative to the source component.

    Returns:
    :   a `Point` object containing the x and y coordinates
        relative to the source component
  + ### translatePoint

    publicô voidô translatePoint(intô x,
    intô y)

    Translates the event's coordinates to a new position
    by adding specified `x` (horizontal) and `y`
    (vertical) offsets.

    Parameters:
    :   `x` - the horizontal x value to add to the current x
        coordinate position
    :   `y` - the vertical y value to add to the current y
        coordinate position
  + ### getClickCount

    publicô intô getClickCount()

    Returns the number of mouse clicks associated with this event.

    Returns:
    :   integer value for the number of clicks
  + ### getButton

    publicô intô getButton()

    Returns which, if any, of the mouse buttons has changed state.
    The returned value is ranged
    from 0 to the [`MouseInfo.getNumberOfButtons()`](../MouseInfo.md#getNumberOfButtons())
    value.
    The returned value includes at least the following constants:
    - `NOBUTTON`- `BUTTON1`- `BUTTON2`- `BUTTON3`It is allowed to use those constants to compare with the returned button number in the application.
    For example,

    ```
     if (anEvent.getButton() == MouseEvent.BUTTON1) {
    ```

    In particular, for a mouse with one, two, or three buttons this method may return the following values:
    - 0 (`NOBUTTON`)- 1 (`BUTTON1`)- 2 (`BUTTON2`)- 3 (`BUTTON3`)Button numbers greater than `BUTTON3` have no constant identifier.
    So if a mouse with five buttons is
    installed, this method may return the following values:
    - 0 (`NOBUTTON`)- 1 (`BUTTON1`)- 2 (`BUTTON2`)- 3 (`BUTTON3`)- 4- 5

    Note: If support for extended mouse buttons is [`disabled`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled()) by Java
    then the AWT event subsystem does not produce mouse events for the extended mouse
    buttons. So it is not expected that this method returns anything except `NOBUTTON`, `BUTTON1`,
    `BUTTON2`, `BUTTON3`.

    Returns:
    :   one of the values from 0 to [`MouseInfo.getNumberOfButtons()`](../MouseInfo.md#getNumberOfButtons())
        if support for the extended mouse buttons is [`enabled`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled()) by Java.
        That range includes `NOBUTTON`, `BUTTON1`, `BUTTON2`, `BUTTON3`;
          
        `NOBUTTON`, `BUTTON1`, `BUTTON2` or `BUTTON3`
        if support for the extended mouse buttons is [`disabled`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled()) by Java

    Since:
    :   1.4

    See Also:
    :   - [`Toolkit.areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled()`](../Toolkit.md#areExtraMouseButtonsEnabled())
        - [`MouseInfo.getNumberOfButtons()`](../MouseInfo.md#getNumberOfButtons())
        - [`MouseEvent(Component, int, long, int, int, int, int, int, int, boolean, int)`](#%3Cinit%3E(java.awt.Component,int,long,int,int,int,int,int,int,boolean,int))
        - [`InputEvent.getMaskForButton(int)`](InputEvent.md#getMaskForButton(int))
  + ### isPopupTrigger

    publicô booleanô isPopupTrigger()

    Returns whether or not this mouse event is the popup menu
    trigger event for the platform.

    **Note**: Popup menus are triggered differently
    on different systems. Therefore, `isPopupTrigger`
    should be checked in both `mousePressed`
    and `mouseReleased`
    for proper cross-platform functionality.

    Returns:
    :   boolean, true if this event is the popup menu trigger
        for this platform
  + ### getMouseModifiersText

    public staticô [String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang")ô getMouseModifiersText(intô modifiers)

    Returns a `String` instance describing the modifier keys and
    mouse buttons that were down during the event, such as "Shift",
    or "Ctrl+Shift". These strings can be localized by changing
    the `awt.properties` file.

    Note that the `InputEvent.ALT_MASK` and
    `InputEvent.BUTTON2_MASK` have equal values,
    so the "Alt" string is returned for both modifiers. Likewise,
    the `InputEvent.META_MASK` and
    `InputEvent.BUTTON3_MASK` have equal values,
    so the "Meta" string is returned for both modifiers.

    Note that passing negative parameter is incorrect,
    and will cause the returning an unspecified string.
    Zero parameter means that no modifiers were passed and will
    cause the returning an empty string.

    Parameters:
    :   `modifiers` - A modifier mask describing the modifier keys and
        mouse buttons that were down during the event

    Returns:
    :   string string text description of the combination of modifier
        keys and mouse buttons that were down during the event

    Since:
    :   1.4

    See Also:
    :   - [`InputEvent.getModifiersExText(int)`](InputEvent.md#getModifiersExText(int))
  + ### paramString

    publicô [String](../../../../java.base/java/lang/String.md "class in java.lang")ô paramString()

    Returns a parameter string identifying this event.
    This method is useful for event-logging and for debugging.

    Overrides:
    :   `paramString`ô in classô `ComponentEvent`

    Returns:
    :   a string identifying the event and its attributes